Of
the four candidates that were out there,
I would say that Worsh was probably the
worst.
>> I expect him to be tested in the same
way that markets tested every single
central banker.
>> This is going to be a very interesting
confirmation process.
>> I fully expect that Kevin Oris will get
through eventually.
>> What would be more important is how the
economy evolves. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, meeting gravity. This
year's big winners now threatening to
undo this year's equity gains as the
explosive rally in precious metals
develops into a three-day route and AI's
big funding needs are receiving a
skeptical response. Jensen putting a
question mark over open AAI.
>> So this is the exact quote when he was
speaking to reporters over in Taipei. It
was never a commitment. He's talking
about the $100 billion investment in
OpenAI. They invited us to invest up to
a hundred billion. I also invite anyone
to invest up to hundred billion in me.
And of course we were we were very happy
and honored that they invited us, but we
will invest one step at a time. Why was
he doing this? What was he signaling to
markets given the fact there are a lot
of ways to phrase this? This seems like
a full step back from this commitment,
>> particularly after this followed a Wall
Street Journal report going into the
weekend that suggested he's indicated
and criticized the lack of discipline in
OpenAI's business approach. None of that
looks good. Spare a thought for Oracle
who are also coming out with all of
their funding needs for the year ahead
and saying they need to raise as much as
$50 billion this year. Not great timing
for that headline from that company.
>> Yeah, $50 billion in debt and equity and
right now you're seeing the stock say,
"I don't think so." And right now
there's a real question. Is there
overinvestment in the wrong assets? And
the fact that Nvidia suddenly is saying,
"Hold on a second. We need to reassess
raises some questions about this trade,
but also the messaging." Jensen Wong has
to know what the market's reaction is
going to be. So why would he phrase it
this way? And by the way, I also would
be grateful to invite anyone to invest
this amount of money.
>> Well, he was forced to phrase it this
way because the Wall Street Journal
reporting over the weekend, basically
Jensen Wong putting a lot of criticism
on Open AI, even though he come out and
said he thinks it's a fabulous company.
it needs to do well and Nvidia wants to
invest in it. Over the weekend, the Wall
Street Journal really digging into some
of his private comments behind the
scenes about the concern he has and what
he calls the lack of discipline at
OpenAI.
>> It's a tough start to the week for a lot
of people in this market. Let's put it
that way. The Cosby in South Korea down
by 5%. Gold and silver getting
absolutely hammered over the last few
sessions. Gold off the lows, we're still
down by 4%. Energy in the mix as well.
We've all talked about that tight
relationship between precious metals and
equity risk. You're seeing that play out
this morning.
>> Yeah. Although why is sort of a big
question. How much is this technical and
how much is this fundamental? There's a
huge discussion around the short
squeezes that have taken place and the
fact that even if you see the biggest
two-day selloff in silver on record, you
still are up for the year if you bought
at the end of last year. So, a real
question here about whether this is just
a pop off the top or whether this is
something that has deeper significance.
>> We've got a lot to talk about this
morning. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Lori Calvacino of RBC as
this year's big winners unwind. We'll
speak to the former senior US
intelligence official Norman Rule as US
Iran tensions ease and Andrew Sheets of
Morgan Stanley as markets struggle to
price a Kevin Walsh Federal Reserve. We
begin this hour with stocks sliding on
course for a fourth day of losses as
precious metals plunge and the AI trade
meets some resistance going into
earnings this week from both Alphabet
and Amazon. Joining us around the table
is Lori Cviscina of RBC Capital Markets.
Lori, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What would you tell clients who ask you,
Lori, what is this this morning?
>> So, look, I think there's a whole lot of
stuff hitting the market all at once.
And we said coming into this reporting
season that it was a chance for
investors to kind of push the macro
aside and focus on the micro. Uh the
macro's been pretty pesky in terms of
sticking around in unusual ways. And I
would also argue that the micro has been
a little bit underwhelming. Um if you
look at the beat rates and just a very
simple you know kind of gauge on how
reporting season is going. Last we
checked last week was about 77% of
companies were beating consensus
estimates. Now that sounds good uh this
for the S&P 500 until you go back and
look at last quarter when it was like 82
83%. So you know and we're seeing
similar things on the rates of upward
revisions about 51.4%
to the upside back in September that was
65%. So, you know, we've described this
as slightly squishy, not a disaster, um,
but not good.
>> Squishy is not a word I would use to
describe what happened with Microsoft
just last week. Luckily for them, Kevin
Walsh happened to the Federal Reserve
and we barely discussed it on Friday. Is
that a warning ahead of Alphabet, ahead
of Amazon?
>> So, look, I think the other thing we
have to contend with, if you go back to
the second half of 2025, and it seems
like ages ago now, it's been such a long
start to the year. Um, but we really
noticed all the way back on Labor Day
that we were seeing AI jitters coming
back into the market. We've seen the PE
multiple of the S&P 500, just a simple
forward PE, hit a ceiling and be unable
to penetrate it since really August. So,
we've been kind of seeing the multiple
shift around. And I think especially on
these top 10 market cap names, they're
pretty much priced for perfection. The
bar is high and there's not a lot of
room for error. Um, I'm not an expert on
any one of these individual stocks. But
I can tell you that there was a healthy
appetite even before all of these macro
issues sort of hit the market of
diversification. do we need to diversify
away from some of these big mega cap
growth names and that hasn't gone away.
>> Are some of these big mega caps uh
passing the baton in terms of earnings
growth to smaller companies or is the
squishiness that you're talking about
pervasive across different uh teners of
the equity market?
>> I feel like some of that is going on
within technology, but I'll tell you as
a generalist when I look at sort of the
broader S&P 500, I'm getting very
frustrated in my reading. And so, you
know, we I think it's pretty well known
by those who follow our work that we
spend a lot of time on my team read
reading through earnings call
transcripts. Nobody wants to talk to us
during earnings because they're all
busy, you know, doing the same thing.
And the reality is that I get excited
when I get to the tech companies, like
when we finally got a bunch of them last
week, I felt like I had better things to
read. And I do feel like, you know, if
you're going outside of tech and looking
at the endusers of AI, right, which is
sort of going to be the next phase,
they're using better examples and
they're getting more granular and like
it's more interesting stuff to read.
It's not just like, hey, we're adding to
efficiency. Hey, we're adding to
productivity. They're giving us some
real examples, but I almost want to say
like where's the beef? Where's the
numbers? Where's the numerical impact to
revenues? Where's the numerical impact
to margins? Where's the numerical impact
to earnings? We're just not getting it
yet. And it's probably because it's not
there to get. And I think that's the
issue with kind of rotating within this
AI trade. I can kind of see it happening
within the tech space. But is it
broadening out beyond that tech space
where we're seeing really measurable
impact? I don't think we're getting it
yet.
>> So what would it take to get to another
phase where suddenly you could see
equity markets rise in tandem and the
hope for AI to come back or do you see
this as actually beginning the sort of
step down in terms of valuations and
enthusiasm? So, you know, I think that
valuations can generally hold pretty
steady, but I do think what has
encouraged me a little bit is that in
the Q&A portion of earnings calls, we
are starting to see analysts ask the
question. And, you know, that's where
some of these better answers are coming
out. And I I forget which company it
was, but there was one that actually
said, you know, we wish we had better
specifics to give you. And I thought
that was actually a very intellectually,
you know, kind of honest response. So, I
do think the analyst community is
starting to push a little bit harder,
but I don't think we're going to
necessarily get it this reporting
season. When you look at the discussion
when it comes to the earnings report,
some of the commentary you talk about in
your note is the consumer color. Yeah.
What is the consu these companies saying
about the consumer right now and the
health of the consumer?
>> So, you kind of have to take it week by
week. And if you go in the first two
weeks, we mostly got sort of derivative
looks at the consumer, meaning you know,
big banks coming out and telling us,
hey, all the stats look good. We're not
seeing any red flags. That's been a very
consistent message for several quarters
now, and that does feel like it's
holding up. I would say last week we
finally started to get like some
specific sumer consumer companies that
really understand what's going on on
boots on the ground level. That
messaging hasn't changed all that much
which are still seeing you know kind of
the companies that are more on the
experience side of things are saying
things still look pretty good. That's
been a key theme. Um you know we did see
one consumer company you know really you
know kind of talk about how they had
seen weakness in big ticket items and
those sorts of things. So, I would say
the the narrative is still coming out,
but it does seem to be pretty consistent
with what we heard last reporting
season, which is yes, the aggregate
spend is still healthy, but there are
problems underneath the surface. Not in
every company, not in every vertical.
People like to go around and, you know,
talk about whatever fits their
narrative, but if you look at it
broadly, it is still pretty mixed. And
there's a there's there's still signs of
consumer stress under the surface.
>> Overall though, it does seem like based
off this reporting consu the consumer is
resilient. what what else is standing
out to you that basically is on concerns
of the seauite. So I would say early on
the first two weeks and I did feel like
I heard less about this last week but it
just felt like the first two weeks
geopolitics cast a poll um over the
entire kind of broader outlook
discussion when companies are sort of
talking about kind of vaguely you know
kind of what they're expecting in the
year ahead that did feel like it got a
little bit better last week um you know
I think that for all the financial
companies and they were still you know a
significant chunk last week but sort of
the interest rate credit card cap issue
was coming up um we are seeing like
other policy discussions that are coming
up and I would say generally on those
whether it's something healthcare
related even housing affordability
companies are sort of still casting
those as manageable we're we're you know
glad the administration is focused on
this um but it really that interest rate
credit card issue is one that keeps
coming back like a bad penny
>> it's not going away is it
>> no
>> is that putting a dark cloud over the
financials for you
>> you know what we said we're overweight
this sector and we like the sector we
think that investment banks had a
problem on the valuation front so it
didn't overly worry me that first week
when you saw some of them getting hit,
you know, kind of more mixed results.
We've liked the regionals better. Um,
we've thought generally outside of that
kind of capital markets area, valuations
have looked pretty good, earnings
revisions have looked pretty good, but
we did, you know, sort of poke holes
into maybe one pillar of our thesis. Um,
and there, you know, like five or six
reasons why we like the sector. One of
those had been the perception that the
policy, uh, tailwinds were stronger than
the headwinds there. And so we did sort
of call that out after the first week
and you know when we wrote our recap
that you know we might need to question
that assumption.
>> You're right to put out some of the
jitters and some of the headlines too
was sell America. The good news this
morning notable I think is that bonds
are actually rally bonds are running and
yields are down by a couple of basis
points across the curve.
>> Yeah. And is this because ultimately it
is having the same kind of reaction
function. You know, I'm sitting here
listening to Lori talking about the idea
of credit card caps and I'm thinking
about the new Fed pick and the idea of
easy policy and I wonder is the idea of
deregulation and accommodation getting
squishy. Right? The idea of you you give
with one hand, you take away from the
other. You give less regulation of the
banks, but you cap some of the interest
rates. You necessarily lower rates at
the front end, but you might shrink the
balance sheet. It's sort of like how do
you understand this in markets and right
now it's squishy.
>> That was Friday's story. Struggling to
price Kevin Walsh at the Federal
Reserve. Did you have similar
conversations with clients?
>> So, look, you know, in talking to our
rates team, you know, I think they what
they always stress, right, and they try
to take kind of a middle of the road
approach on this that this is a
committee decision at the end of the day
and I think they're sort of sticking
with that thesis. Um, you know, when I
sort of take a step back looking at it
from an equity market lens, what I
really noticed was that the Russell 2000
didn't do well um after the pick. And we
also were looking at that after the Fed
meeting on Wednesday. I have this little
screen on Bloomberg set up so I watch
all these, you know, kind of different
sectors and parts of the market and how
they trade after 2 p.m. And we actually
saw, you know, the S&P was flat, but the
Russell 2000 lagged a bit. And then we
saw it get hit again on Friday. And what
I thought was very interesting about
that was something, you know, kind of my
rate strategist had said, you know, he
was talking about in his market kind of
these short-term trades might unwind
quickly. In my world, the short-term
trade equivalent is the Russell 2000
because fast money hedge funds like to
bid it up on Fed dovishness and sell it
off when their doubbishness goes too far
and they have to take it in the other
direction. Um, I have also pointed out
that beyond, you know, sort of, you
know, kind of this Fed issue kind of
going back and forth. They're just not
cheap anymore. They're starting to get
back to November 2024 highs on a couple
different PE metrics and they're not net
short anymore in the CFTC data. So that
does, you know, it's it's a space we've
generally felt better about. The
earnings data is looking a little bit
better there. But if you were just
buying the small caps on on the Fed, I
mean, you got your answer on Friday.
What should happen there?
>> The Rosal futures are down by another
3/4 of 1% so far this morning. Lori's
going to be sticking with us. S&P 500
futures down by 0.6%. With an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Vonnie for
more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. A partial US
government shutdown entering its third
day. House Speaker Mike Johnson is
hoping for a vote on funding bills
today. Minority Leader Hakeim Jeff
saying Democrats want an agreement on
their demands for reforms at DHS before
they'll vote in favor of the package to
reopen the government.
Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong saying the
company's proposed $100 billion
investment in Open AI was quote never a
commitment. The Wall Street Journal
earlier reporting the investment plan
announced in September had stalled after
some people inside Nvidia expressed
doubts about the deal. Wong downplaying
the report saying Nvidia will continue
to invest in the ChachiPT maker.
Disney is close to naming a new CEO to
succeed Bob Iger. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the company's board
will likely promote theme park division
chairman Josh Dearo. Tomorrow has led
the unit that delivers most of Disney's
profits since 2020. The board is
expected to vote in the coming week.
Disney also set to report earnings
within the hour. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> watch this space in the next hour. Who
knows, we might get an update. For those
of you worried about a Bob Cheek repeat,
then the good news this time around is
James Gorman's running the succession
planning and not Bob Iger.
>> Yeah, it seems like right now there is
probably going to be a successor and
that person is going to stick because
evidently Bob Iger enjoys his yacht and
wants to spend more time on it.
>> Why not? And the reason I mentioned
Gorman is because you oversaw such a
fantastic succession plan over at Morgan
Stanley to pick. Doing phenomenally
well.
>> You just had an incredible quarter and
ultimately has become chairman and
actually is succession, not repeat. Come
on back. Let's do this again.
>> What a mess. Honestly, more on that
story in just a moment. We'll catch up
with the Walt Disney story in about 17
minutes time. Up next on the program,
gold losing its shine.
>> I don't think anything's really changed
fundamentally on the gold side. So, I
still believe it's going to go back up.
It's going to be very volatile over the
next week.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Will Kennedy live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Three-day slide on the S&P 500
developing into day four. Equities are
down across the board. We're negative by
0.6% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, down
by 0.9. Don't think you can overstate
the importance of the story around
Nvidia and OpenAI. We can get to
precious metals in just a moment, but
the push back from Jensen W I think is
very important. hundred billion dollars
as they had in the letter of commitment
last September is not necessarily an
actual commitment and they will evaluate
each investment one step at a time. It
raises a question, especially given the
reporting over the weekend about Jensen
Wong's concerns about open AAI. Is this
just the beginning of a pullback in
terms of funding Open AI more broadly,
some of the more speculative
investments?
>> It's an invitation, not a commitment.
They don't need to follow through. And
that's what seemed to be spooking some
of the market about what is going on
with OpenAI. And to your point,
Jonathan, what is going on with Oracle
doubling down the need for debt? Zero
Hedge was talking about, well, this
isn't just to expand their AI
infrastructure. It's actually to make
sure they have cash by the end of the
year.
>> The NASDAQ kind of performance so far.
This morning, Nvidia is down by about
1.9%. I mentioned precious metals. What
a move. Under Savas this morning, gold
losing its shine.
>> They paused. Um, we know on Friday that
hedge funds have reversed positions in
both gold and silver and ETF flows have
been absolutely gigantic over the last
several months. I don't think anything's
really changed fundamentally on the gold
side. So, I still believe it's going to
go back up. It's going to be very
volatile over the next week once we get
through this volatility that it's still
going back up.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. An
explosive rally in precious metal tools
developing into a multi-day route. Gold
extending losses this morning. At one
point, nearing its biggest two-day drop
in more than four decades. Bloomberg's
Will Kennedy joins us now for more.
Will, I think we're all waking up and
asking the same question. What happened
over the previous few days? And what was
this this morning?
Well, I think that we quoted someone
today that this trade had become very
very crowded and clearly the precious
metals rally is a story that's been
developing over the last year. Um, and
it just accelerated and accelerated and
I think it got to the point where it was
unsustainable and some form of
correction was necessary. But yes indeed
it's been dramatic and I think it's been
particularly dramatic because both the
up and now the down has been driven by a
lot of retail investors coming in
through ETFs and now coming out
especially in China.
>> Well, it's not just what's happening in
precious metals, it's also base metals.
We've seen it in copper as well. And
this morning you're seeing in crude WTI
and Brent down by 5% or so. Are they
different stories or the same thing?
>> It's partly the same thing. I think that
what's happened in Precious has got
people a little bit bearish on the whole
commodities complex. But in oil, there
is also the Iran in the background.
There are signs uh that Iran and the US
are talking and that there may be able
to avoid a conflict. And of course, that
is the biggest geopolitical risk in the
oil market right now, the threat that
we've heard from President Trump that he
may take military action against Iran.
And if those threats are off the table
for a while, it's quite bearish for
crude. So, you've got uh you've got that
story. You've got the commodity sell
off. You've got uh the dollar playing
into commodities as well and you put
that together and that's why we've seen
this quite chunky move in crude this
morning.
>> Massive move. Crude's down by 5% on WTI.
Brent's down by 4.9. Will just before
you go, how orderly is some of this the
physical market? What do things look
like? What are you hearing from
contacts?
>> So, I think we should differentiate
between the gold and the silver story
here. silver uh has become very
speculative, very frothy, quite probably
disorderly if you want to use that word
on the way up and the wear down because
of because the thing about silver is
it's not bought by central banks. it's
not held um as a reserve uh in by
central banks and what had been driving
the commodity the gold rally had been at
least especially initially central bank
buying this whole idea of central banks
needing to diversify away from their
dollar holdings and I think you had a
guest on earlier explaining that trend
probably remains in place and that the
macro story for gold probably is still
there so I think as we look forward we
should probably uh differentiate between
this rather crazy silver market and
what's going on in gold where the
long-term stories that people have been
talking about probably haven't
fundamentally changed.
>> They will. Thank you. Will Kennedy out
of London on the latest moves in the
commodity market. Check out silver at
the lows today. Just in today's session,
down by 16% and right now down about
2.9.
>> The rise has been absolutely shocking.
There was this one statistic that I read
over the weekend that I loved. For
years, silver accounted to 5 to 7% of
the cost of manufacturing a solar panel.
Today it accounts to 15 to 20% of the
cost of each solar panel because of how
much prices have increased. How as a
manufacturer do you price and source
some of these resources if you if it's
trading like a bitcoin or if it's
trading like a a penny stock and this is
increasingly the question because it is
something that people actually use.
>> This is why the trade was loved so much
from the long side because you had that
industrial component and that precious
metal component as well. But to Will's
point, volatile on the upside and
volatile as we move to the downside.
This has been pretty explosive stuff in
both directions for that metal.
>> And frankly, the trading's gotten a lot
thinner and there's a real question of
who's going to step in and buy. And
ultimately, right now, people are
wondering if Chinese retail buyers are
going to step in and buy the dip. And if
they do, then they'll get more excited
to maybe go and follow. But at this
point, how can a respectable trading
house put any kind of risk on the line
when it's unclear what the drivers are
and you've got increasingly thin
liquidity?
>> Lori Calvis of RBC is still with us.
Lori, I wanted to talk to you about the
relationship between precious metals and
what's happened with equity risk. the
correlation between the both, the
traditional correlation and what we've
seen play out more broadly in the last
12 months or so.
>> So, when I talked to um Chris Looney,
our gold strategist at RBC, you know,
the thing he emphasized coming into last
week was the dollar and uncertainty
really driving the gold price, um
checked in with him on Friday and he
said, look, you know, we've obviously
seen some volatility here, but he thinks
the uncertainty story is going to stick
around this year. Um so you know I think
it's a question that comes up in a lot
of my meetings is you know why are
equities ignoring XYZ and you know what
my response is is that equities are not
ignoring XYZ they are shifting
underneath the surface to the sectors
that might benefit from XYZ or might you
know shifting away from the ones that
may be hurt but primarily what we're
seeing right is the realization of kind
of that itch to sort of protect against
those macro risks going to things like
gold right I can't tell you how many
times in my year I had outlook
discussions I was asked what is Chris
thinking right now. Um, and and I think
the reality is you kind of do this with
one hand and you do this with the other
hand, right? I think that's what's been
going on a lot in my world.
>> Do you expect a tight correlation to
continue between equity risk and
precious metals?
>> You know, I think we have to see going
forward. I think the reality is there
are just not a lot of fantastic
alternatives. And I do think that within
the S&P, you know, kind of that AI big
mega cap tech story had been one way to
play defense, right? And so when you're
sort of concerned about whether it's
geopolitics, macro, the economy,
whatever it is, you know, you kind of go
to secular growers. Well, now are those
secular growers starting to look, you
know, a little bit less attractive. So I
think it increasingly pushes people
outside equities to protect against
those risks.
>> How much is all this volatility Kevin
Worsh's fault?
>> You know, I'm not the best person to ask
on that. Um I I I tell people when I go
to Europe and I go to Canada, they want
to talk about the Fed, they want to talk
about geopolitics, they want to talk
about Greenland, you know, all these
issues. And when I come home to the US,
um, they want to talk about earnings.
Um, and so, you know, they're just very,
very different focuses. Um, you know, to
me, you know, what I've told people is
if you look at the equity market
performance in different kinds of Fed
rate environments, I don't have to get
too caught up in this fight. Um, we had
a new component of our modeling this
year that looks at how equities perform
in a 12-month period when the Fed is
either doing nothing or hiking or
cutting by a certain amount. Um, the
best environment for stocks is when the
Fed does absolutely nothing. Um, if you
look at the next two best, it's when the
Fed is hiking or cutting 100 basis
points or less in a 12-month time frame.
So, my only kind of dog in this fight is
I don't want the Fed to be doing too
much.
>> Just I know we don't talk about Bitcoin
very much, but Bitcoin's down some 25%
in the past couple of months, and I'm
just wondering if that signals to you
that it's correlated with precious
metals, that it's correlated with
something else, or that frankly the
bubble's bursting.
>> Well, you know, it's funny. I have a
chart in my weekly which we we put out
this morning and I was updating this one
on Friday so it doesn't sort of show the
activity over the weekend but it had
actually already shown as of Friday uh
that Bitcoin was breaking down a bit and
then also there's this index um looking
at private markets related stocks and we
started looking that after you know kind
of October November we we have a few
other things on the chart including the
S&P and what we basically show is that
you know a lot of these different gauges
of risk all kind of broke down at the
same time in October and early November
and we often can see that when Bitcoin
breaks down or just you know it can be
not necessarily a leader of a decline in
the equity market but at least a
sideways kind of move causing some
indigestion. So we watch that
religiously in the weekly um and we did
call that out that you know it's you're
seeing both that private markets index
um which nobody's talking about by the
way that's just not coming up in
conversation these days at least in my
meetings and then Bitcoin also breaking
down. Is it sort of confirming that we
need a little bit of a breather in this
market? Lori, it's good to see you.
Thoughtful stuff. Thank you. Lori Cavina
of RBC Capital Markets. Up until now,
the stock market quite resilient in the
face of these pockets of real
volatility. Crypto being one, JGBs being
another, gold precious metals more
recently.
>> I think that all risk assets, dollar
denominated were up last month despite
all of the headline risk. It just gives
you a sense of your point.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Norman Rule of CSIS as the US and
Iran turn down the temperature.
We are on the longest losing streak of
the year so far. Three days could become
day four. We're down again this morning
by 0.5 on the S&P, negative by 0.8 on
the NASDAQ 100. Precious metals also
getting hammered this morning. We're
down about 2 or 3% on gold. Silver
recovering. The volatility in silver is
just absolute nonsense. Down 16% to down
1.9%.
>> I love this for no reason based on what
we've seen.
>> Yeah, we've escalated from, you know, a
lot of volatility to just sheer
nonsense. And I think a lot of people
are viewing it that way, which is a
reason why you've seen actually people
pull back from trading it. What is
spurring this and how much is being
driven by retail investors over in
China? Well, when John's saying
nonsense, this is basically the tone
Paul Donovan of UBS took this morning.
Has FOMO lost its mojo? Basically,
people trying to spin this when it comes
to silver and gold as fundamental
economics. It seems more likely that the
fear of missing out trade has become
exhausted.
>> We've got a lot to track and it's
exhausting so far already this morning.
Futures recovering. We're down about
0.5% on the S&P. Let's get you an update
on some single names, some morning
movers. Yahara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. And as you guys have said, the
precious metals rally has come crashing
down and we are seeing mining stocks
falling as a result. We are seeing
Barrett Gold down 2.5% here in the
pre-market. And Lisa, you ask what is
driving this? Well, Edard Denny saying
the sell-off may have started with
President Trump uh picking Fed chair
picking uh Kevin Worsh to lead the Fed,
but the bigger driver was the CME
raising margin requirements, which
forced traders to liquidate their
positions. Meanwhile, Oracle shares also
falling in the pre-market, down 3% as
the company says it plans to raise up to
$50 billion to fund its AI computing uh
buildout. Roughly half of that would
come from debt, adding strain to an
already heavy balance sheet. So, the
concern here is that borrowing more
before AI profits show up could add
strain to cash flow, which is already
negative, and pressure credit ratings.
And Bitcoin ending the month of January
lower, its fourth straight monthly
decline, something we haven't seen since
2018. And we start February not on a
good note. Bitcoin this morning below
78,000. And that is hit hitting
cryptolink stocks like Coinbase and
Michael Michael Sailor Strategy which is
down 7 and a half% and it now owns
Bitcoin worth less than what it paid.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhierra in
the next hour. On a radar this morning,
gold and silver extending losses into a
third consecutive day, nearly unwinding
their recent record-breaking rally. At
one point, gold nearing its biggest
two-day drop in more than four decades.
Elsewhere, Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang saying
his company's proposed 100 billion
investment in OpenAI was quote never a
commitment. Huang added that Nvidia will
invest one step at a time, calling the
potential deal quote, the largest
investment we've ever made. And finally,
House Speaker Mike Johnson confident the
partial government shutdown would end by
tomorrow. Approving the plan would fund
Homeland Security for two weeks,
allowing more negotiating time, while
the rest of the government would be
cleared through September.
>> I can just say I'm really happy that it
took a half an hour for us to talk about
the government shutdown that begins
today because it indicates that it's not
on people's radar, which is a positive
thing, and I really hope personally that
it gets resolved quickly. Right now, the
affected agencies are the Treasury,
Defense, Homeland Security,
Transportation, Health and Human
Services, and Labor Departments. What
about the data? Do we get the data? The
the labor market report is going to come
out on Friday. And that ultimately to me
is my main question.
>> We get it if Speaker Johnson is accurate
in his confidence that we will avoid
this by Tuesday. If it goes longer than
Tuesday, I'm not sure we get the data,
the non-farm payrollers report coming
out on Friday. And I think it is a
little bit more of a tricky calculus
right now. There was a call over the
weekend between Democratic leaders Hakee
Jeff and his caucus. And then he had to
go tell Mike Johnson, don't count on
Democrat votes for this. So, it is going
to be a little bit more challenging. And
I don't think they're out of the woods
just yet. I'm not counting on it ending
tomorrow.
>> I was hoping to go through the whole
show without talking about this at all.
>> Never mind the last 60 seconds.
>> Someone just, you know, shoehorn that in
there just to, you know, wreck your day.
>> Well, we might not get the data if it
stays shut.
>> 65k is the estimate for Friday, by the
way. I hope we actually see the number.
The previous number was 50,000. As well,
let's turn to geopolitics. crude prices
falling as President Donald Trump looks
to strike a deal with Iran.
>> Why wouldn't he say that? Of course you
would say that. But uh we have the
biggest most powerful ships in the world
over there. Very close couple of days
and uh hopefully we'll make a deal. If
we don't make a deal, then we'll find
out whether or not he was right.
>> Iran Supreme Leader warning of a
possible regional war. Bloomberg's
Jamaica Beti joined us now from Dubai
for more. Jamala, good morning. Are we
close to a breakthrough here?
I think that's a big question. Diplomacy
is definitely back on the agenda again,
John. If you compare where we were uh
going into the weekend on Friday, I
think there was a feeling that perhaps
military action was was imminent or
possibly could happen over the course of
the weekend. We walked in today and it
really feels like the diplomacy angle is
the angle that has been actively pursued
over the last 24 hours and a lot of the
push has been from Gulf Arab nations.
You know that the Qatar prime minister,
foreign minister traveled to Tahran. He
met with Ali Larijani who's the
secretary of the Iran National Supreme
Council. After that, Larijani posted on
X that a framework for negotiations had
been agreed to. Uh they've also had
calls with the Egyptians, with uh with
Turkey as well. And so really there has
been a push to bring Iran back to the
negotiations table. Now here is the
question. What exactly are they going to
be negotiating? Because what we
understand is that the Trump
administration wants to tie in three
elements into this round of
negotiations. It's not just about their
nuclear ambitions anymore. They also
want to include the ballistic missile
arsenal and the fact that Iran still sit
on a a huge number of short and
mid-range ballistic missiles. And they
also want to bring in the discussions
around Iran funding many of those
proxies in the region, including the
likes of Hezbollah and Houthi. The
Iranians have said that those last two
elements are non-starters at this point
in time. They're willing to continue
negotiations on nuclear but not
necessarily the other two. And so it is
going to be interesting to see whether
there is daylight between the two,
whether these negotiations can actually
push forward. They're not direct as we
know they're indirect. Uh and at the
same time, the US president, President
Trump has warned of that huge military
presence, the Armada that's being built
up in the Arabian Sea, the arrival of
the Abraham Lincoln, uh the F-15, the
F-35, uh the buildup of troops in the
region as well. All of that is a means
of deterrence. Uh but some people are
saying maybe they're just biting time
and uh waiting to build up a stronger
presence before we actually go down the
military channel.
>> Jama with the latest out of Dubai.
Jamaa, thank Jamanna Basichi there of
Bloomberg. To extend the conversation,
joining us now is the former senior US
intelligence official Norman Rule. Norm
I think Jam is asking the right
question. Negotiations. What's up for
negotiation?
>> Well, good morning. Diplomacy continues
and to remain the administration's
primary goal with Iran, but significant
US military action is a serious
near-term possibility. the nature of the
US force buildup and Iran's continued
unwillingness to make these substantial
concessions that Washington seeks uh uh
uh bring us to a continued impass. Uh a
US military strike on Iran could begin
with little notice. Uh it is true that
diplomacy dominates the landscape, but
the Trump administration uh uh will not
tolerate its time being wasted. uh
regional partners are indeed focusing on
an intensive diplomatic campaign. Uh but
the Trump administration's uh demands
have been consistent. Their uh uh uh uh
harmonious with what uh it has been
asking for years and previous
administrations. uh substantial
concessions on Iran's nuclear weapons
capability, its ability to uh uh uh
build a long range missile program to
include an ICBM program that could
threaten the United States and regional
militia programs that destabilize the
region if Iran does not concede on this.
There is a high likelihood of a military
action in the near term. Norman, is
diplomacy then just a real option or
what you're describing it maybe is it
just a distraction tactic?
>> It is a real option and I think the
Trump administration has actually played
this well. It has used rhetoric. It has
used the threat of significant tariffs
and it has used this military buildup to
produce a dynamic in which multiple
countries are now pressing the Iranians
to uh produce uh concessions that would
achieve what all of these countries
want. uh none of these countries want an
Iranian uh nuclear weapon uh missile
threat and all these countries oppose uh
Iran's regional malign adventurism. So
in essence we all want the same thing.
It's just Iran refuses to cooperate. The
challenge is that to do this Iran will
have to make substantial changes in the
DNA of the regime itself and politically
uh it's been unwilling to do so. The
hope is that because of the unrest and
the significant economic challenges the
regime faces that this might be a moment
where the regime's leadership in order
to seek regime long-term survival may be
willing to make those concessions or
begin a process to do so. So it's not an
unwise tactic that the administration is
pursuing. The question becomes is there
a reason to believe that it will be
successful without military option and
and and there is reason to be
pessimistic. Well, you've been watching
Iran for decades. Any evidence that they
are willing to make some of those
concessions?
>> None.
>> So, that basically leaves the United
States with likely a military option. Is
that accurate?
>> No. It means that I haven't seen the
evidence. Uh the uh evidence may be
classified and the diplomatic uh uh uh
uh process is still underway. There is
uh reporting uh that uh US special envoy
Wititov and the Iranian foreign minister
may meet uh this week perhaps in Anara
and that process may produce additional
pressure. Uh the US uh military presence
in the region is truly dramatic. It is
providing the United States with a
capability that Iran will will
understand allows the United States uh a
capacity for intensit uh uh uh uh uh
multi-day uh air and missile uh uh uh
capacity over virtually any part of Iran
that against which Iran cannot compete.
Uh so this is a going to create a
conversation within Iran itself and
therefore that evidence may not exist
today but it may build up over coming
days and again that's the process the
Trump administration is trying to
create. So the Trump administration is
not doing anything unwise. It's creating
a dynamic that it hopes to achieve uh an
end.
>> Meanwhile Norm, we have heard from Iran
that this will cause a regional war and
warns of that as one sort of deterrent
to the United States. Do you have a
sense of what the region's neighbors and
behemoths frankly think of all of this?
How much is the US building up troops in
coordination with Saudi Arabia, Qatar,
Israel, and the others?
>> Okay. So, sure. So, first, whenever this
happens, Iran knows it cannot compete
militarily with the US. So, Iran
threatens to disrupt the global economy
to transform this into a regional war uh
to use asymmetric tools. So, it's fallen
back on its traditional tactic. It's uh
conducting a live fire naval maneuvers
in the region uh and it's trying to show
that it could close the straight of
Hormuz which it could do temporarily. Uh
the United States has responded by
pushing out a vast amount of air defense
to its partners in the region over the
last uh uh several days to improve their
protection. We would be able to clear
the straight of Hormuz. It would take
some time and how long it depends. uh
and of course the partners in the region
are doing what they normally do to
ensure that the global energy market is
well supplied as it would be through
storage through uh releases from
strategic reserves so that if there were
an interruption in the straight of
Hormuz it would be uh temporary and also
I should say that if Iran were to do
that it would have no strategic impact
on the course of the campaign in Iran
itself. So Iran just is playing whatever
card it's got. It can't compete on the
campaign in Iran. So it's trying to use
diplomatic pressure externally to
convince other countries to convince
Washington not to attack.
>> Hey Norm, appreciate the analysis this
morning, sir. Thank you. Norman Rule
there of CSIS crude Brent and WTI
trading lower this morning. The prospect
of deescalation between those two
countries contributing to some of that
move so far today. This is the story I
wanted to get to. Disney, the Walt
Disney company putting out earnings
adjusted EPS 163, the estimate 156 and
the park business getting it done, which
is interesting when you consider the
succession planning going down at the
company.
>> Yeah, the person who is likely to take
over is the person who is running the
parks division, I believe Josh Dearo,
who uh may be announced as soon as this
week as the board meets to discuss who
Bob Iger's replacement is going to be.
This has been the leader. very curious
to see some of the other questions
around the controversies and what
happened with late night television and
everything else that evidently pushed
Bob Iger to say I think I need to spend
more time on my yacht
>> and the stock is just about unchanged in
the pre-market so far. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief is Vonyie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie
>> John thanks. Yep. Disney shares falling
in the pre-market. The company reporting
first quarter earnings that beat on both
the top and bottom lines and Disney
reportedly close to naming a new CEO to
succeed Bob ID. sources telling us here
at Bloomberg the company's board will
likely promote theme park division
chairman Josh Dearo.
Elon Musk is taking steps in a massive
consolidation of his empire. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg Musk is
merging SpaceX with his artificial
intelligence firm XAI. A potential
announcement could be coming as soon as
this week. Representatives for both
SpaceX and XAI didn't immediately
respond to requests for comment.
Fifth Third announcing it's closed its
historic merger with Coma. The deal
creating what will be the ninth largest
US bank with approximately $294 billion
in assets. Fifth Third CEO Tim Spence
saying, quote, "We are creating a
stronger and more diversified bank that
is well positioned to deliver
exceptional value." And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> and Vanie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, the president
pushing for rate cuts.
>> Do you have a sense of what he's going
to do as far as interest rates are
concerned? I hope he's going to lower
him. I hope he's going to lower him. Up
next, we'll catch up with Andrew Sheets
of Morgan Stanley.
Equity
softer. We're down by 0.4% on the S&P.
We're down by 3/4 of 1% on the NASDAQ
and down another.5 on the small caps.
The Russell 2000 trading lighter. Soft
and lower and negative by49% so far this
morning. Under Sylvanas this morning,
the president pushing for rate cuts.
>> I think he may get Democrat votes soon.
I think he's so good that he'll probably
get Democrat votes. He should
He's very good. My choice, my Fed choice
should get Democrat votes.
>> Do you have a sense of what he's going
to do as far as interest rates are
concerned?
>> I hope he's going to lower him. I hope
he's going to lower, but you know, he's
going to have to do what he wants to do.
He's a very high quality person. He
should have no trouble getting through.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Markets looking to price a Kevin Walsh
Federal Reserve. President Donald
Trump's nominee known on Wall Street for
being hawkish on inflation. Andrew
Sheets of Morgan Stanley joins us now
for more. Andrew, good morning. We've
said it a number of times over the past
week or so. Who is Kevin Walsh? What
does he stand for when he becomes the
Fed chair?
>> Well, thanks. Good morning. It's great
to be here. Look, this is something that
the market is is going to need to figure
out. And I would say the good news so
far is that the initial reaction that
we've seen, I think, is the reaction you
would associate with credibility. Right?
Over the last uh couple of weeks, there
have been real questions around the
stability of the US dollar. you've seen
large increases in precious metals
prices and the reaction to Worsh's um
Worsh's nomination or or the perceived
nomination would be that gold prices
were down, silver prices were down, the
dollar was higher. So I would say that's
one important factor. The second factor
though that we have to consider is this
is a difficult job in the best of times
and this is especially difficult job
now. Inflation's above the Fed's target.
mortgage rates are still higher than
than I think a lot of Americans would
prefer and valuations are high in the
market. And so this is also he's going
to be coming into a Fed with some
challenging things to navigate.
>> The endorsements on Friday were pretty
notable. We're talking about
establishment figures, defenders of the
liberal order, Gita Gopernath, Muhammad
Alan, the Canadian Prime Minister Mark
Carney. The list just got longer and
longer going into the weekend. people
really think he's good because he has
the credibility of having been on the
Fed, having been an economic uh actor
for a long period of time. I just wonder
if legitimate is commensurate with
predictable and whether we really can
understand exactly how he's going to go
forward,
>> but also other individuals like former
Secretary of State Condisa Rice, Jason
Ferman who worked under Obama. Does that
actually make it harder potentially for
the MAGA wing of Trump's party to
embrace this Fed chair p?
>> It would be nice if we can turn the
volume down on the Fed speak. And I do
wonder if that's the direction Kevin
Walsh is going to take things.
>> Rich Clarida, the former vice chair and
currently at PIMIMCO said this. Worsh
based on his writing since leaving the
Fed may be much less likely to rely on
extensive forward guidance about the
future path of interest rates,
especially during normal times as in the
case today. In other words, are we
watching the death of forward guidance?
>> Is the market already there less reliant
on the communication coming up from this
Federal Reserve? Anyway, Lisa pointed
out going into the weekend and I think
rightly so that the story in markets has
been elsewhere away from the Federal
Reserve in the last 12 months.
>> So, I'm actually not sure it has fully
moved away. I mean, I I do think one
remarkable factor of of this year is
that despite everything that's happened,
you know, kind of constant weekends
dominated by big events is that implied
volatility on US rates is lower than
where it was on January 1st. And so I do
think this this fact of maybe less
forward guidance, less communication, a
market that I think has gotten very used
to a Fed that is telling it where it's
going to go, how fast it's going to get
there, what it's thinking at at all
times. If that really is going to be a
major change under a war Fed, that would
rem a major shift and we think that
could support a steeper curve and higher
volatility as the markets just have to
adjust to this different regime. At the
same time, just to sort of build on what
John's getting at here, there's a sense
that right now the market rises and
falls more on Jensen Hong, the central
banker of the world than Fed Fed chair
Jerome Powell. And there's a sense that
ultimately this is kind of a not boring
time, but it's a time for the Fed just
to sit back and do nothing. Isn't it
just true that it sort of depends
whether Kevin Worsh gets tested,
otherwise it kind of doesn't really
matter?
>> So, I think that testing question I I
think that's exactly right. And and
again, I think if we think about the
market and the risk to the market
environment, one would be that that you
see disappointment out of one of these
big techled enterprises where the market
is clearly very optimistic about the
future. But the other is that we haven't
yet really seen a tension between what
the Fed I think would like to do, which
is bring rates down, and the underlying
data yet. Right? So far, the data, even
though inflation is still above the
Fed's target, you still have somewhat
weak jobs growth, you've had enough to
convince the Fed to get closer to
neutral. What happens if the inflation
data remains a little bit sticky this
year? What happens if there's more
conflict between maybe a desire to cut
rates and the underlying inflation data?
Or if the labor market reacelerates, if
we get stronger jobs growth again? We
haven't seen that yet. And I think that
would present a real test and a real
real challenge for the market to deal
with.
>> What do you make of this argument that
if the Fed were to allow the balance
sheet to roll off more significantly, it
would tighten financial conditions
enough to allow the Fed to cut rates
really aggressively at the front end? Do
you buy that? Do you think that that is
a recipe for lower rates in Nirvana?
>> So I I I do think this is a real
complicated path to to go down because
again I think in theory you could say
look that the Fed has different levers
that can pull to ease financial
conditions. If it uh does a lot by
easing financial conditions by buying a
lot of assets then maybe it can do less
at the front end with rates and vice
versa. So if you're doing less with a
balance sheet you can do with more with
rates. I think the difficulty though,
one, I think the market is clearly very
focused that there needs to be a
sufficient level of reserves in the
system. There's already I think debate
about how close you're getting to that
level. If you're going to run the
balance sheet off a lot more than that,
do you risk um more more liquidity
squeezes in the reserves market? And I
think secondly, and again, I think this
goes back to to the point we were just
mentioning, it it takes the market some
time to adjust. So going very quickly
from one regime to another, I think also
would be a recipe for more volatility.
So, I think in theory it makes some
sense, but I think it would be important
for the Fed to to use a glide path for
that to give give more clarity. And
ironically, kind of what we're talking
about here is is less forward guidance,
less forward-looking. There's clearly
some tension there.
>> It might be hard to go from one regime
to the other if the former Fed chair is
sticking around. Do you have any insight
or thinking about Jay Powell, whether or
not he stays on as a governor?
>> So, so we we don't have a a specific
forecast for that. Our expectation is
that he would stay uh until we hear
otherwise. But this is another factor
that I think is important for this this
debate, right? Unlike a lot of jobs and
business, the Fed chair is is presiding
over democracy. He needs the votes of
the rest of the committee to execute
policy. And so that is a change. And I
think when we talk about what would
would Chair Wars want to do and and how
would he like to take the Fed, another
part of this will be to what extent can
he get the rest of the FOMC to to share
in that vision to move in the same way.
Uh and I think that's also very very
important. Again, this is a reason why
at Morgan Stanley, we're not expecting
this to represent maybe as much of a a
rapid shift of Fed policy because you
have the rest of the Fed to move along.
>> We've got space for one more question. I
want to squeeze this in and you can
answer it however you want to answer it.
We've seen convulsions in JGBs,
convulsions in precious metals and
crypto. I want to understand from your
standpoint whether we could see some
convulsions in corporate credit this
year given what we're hearing from
Oracle over the weekend. So, so far
actually I would say credit's been
surprisingly calm and and I think an
important factor there is that the
economic data so far has been good and
yields have remained elevated and so I
think the risk for credit the way that
credit does convulse is I think if we
saw much weaker economic data if we saw
much lower Treasury yields that take
away that yield-based buyer I think if
what the market is dealing with is is
somewhat higher rates a steeper curve
because economic data is holding up
that's actually quite good for the
demand story and and look some of these
companies might have to pay up more
because they're issuing a lot But I
don't think it leads to to those
convulsions, so to speak.
>> Andrew, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Andrew Sheets there of
Morgan Stanley on the credit markets and
the next leader of the Federal Reserve.
>> Will he please stand up? I mean, I think
that that's what everybody is wondering.
Exactly. Who is this person and will we
find out because he will put a muzzle on
everybody at the Fed?
>> Wouldn't that be good news?
>> For some people in this market, that's
the world they want to see. They don't
want to hear from the Federal Reserve.
>> Tell me about your feelings. I'm there
for it.
>> End the news conference. Get rid of the
dots.
>> No. No. Come on. I want all of it.
>> No more Fed show. No.
>> Well, that's another story. You just
want an afternoon back.
>> Exactly. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with Matt Miskin of John
Hancock and a whole lot more. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
The only thing the equity market really
cares about is revenue growth and
earnings growth.
>> We've got some enormous spend going on
here. Valuations do speak for a stretch
market. There is more capex in the
pipeline. We actually think the Mac 7 is
interesting again.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P pulling back by 0.5%.
Fourth day of losses potentially just
around the corner. The NASDAQ 100 down
by 0.8. In the commodity market, we're
down by more than 2% on gold, by more
than 2% on silver. Brent and WTI trading
lower by almost 5%. Big moves to kick
off a trading week going into this later
this week. Alphabet and Amazon earnings.
And then on Friday, we hope at least.
We've got a payroll report.
>> This morning feels like whack-a-ole.
Right now, there are so many different
narratives that are coming around and
swirling. You start to ask, why are
equity markets down? Is it because of
the riskoff move that you're seeing in
crypto and metals? or is it because
we're seeing some skepticism around the
AI trade and some of the investments in
open AI? There is a swirl, a toxic swirl
uh that has come together. We've seen
this again and again and yet there has
been a sense that things have bound
back. With respect to the metals, there
is a sense that this is a lot of
speculative trading and that this is
bouncing around and what a lot of people
are looking for is when does the buying
step in and solidify some of these
levels that have gotten a bit bonkers
last week. Potentially the buyers will
step in if we see some more movement on
the geopolitical front. after speaking
to Norm Room potentially rule
potentially diplomacy will not work and
then of course we could be off to the
races when it comes to gold and silver.
I love what you said earlier though. How
much of this is just basically because
Kevin Worsh has been announced now at
the Fed chair and how much of that
potentially is just so overdone.
>> I would put more weight on Jensen over
Kevin at this point. Jensen Wang with
some punchy comments over the weekend.
It's not a commitment. A 100 billion
dollar investment in open AI is not a
commitment which raises a lot of
questions about all the other headlines
we've seen over the past 12 months.
>> The idea that every single big tech
company has lined up behind Open AI with
huge investments and Jensen Wong filed a
letter of intent to have a hundred
billion dollar commitment or up to a
hundred billion dollar commitment last
September. Now taking some emphasis off
of that after reporting that he had been
skeptical about exactly what the money
was being put to use. It comes as Oracle
raises $50 billion in debt and equity
markets to finance its bailout. There is
more skepticism getting built in,
especially as the earnings with Laura
Kalvcina point out, you're not seeing
the bang for the buck yet, and that is
causing some concerns.
>> Nvidia in the pre-market negative by
more than 1% so far this morning. Coming
up this morning, this hour, we'll speak
to Matt Miskin of John Hancock as
investors dial down risk. Henry Latray's
evader partners as the government
shutdown standoff rolls on and James
Steel of HSBC as the precious metals
route enters day three. We begin this
hour with stocks falling with gold
melting down. Matt Mskin of John Hancock
seeing the most popular narratives as
miragages writing between runit on macro
and the US dollar debatesman for markets
both look unlikely to materialize. Matt
joins us now for more. Matt, good
morning. Why are you pushing back?
>> Yeah, we're just not seeing it in the
data. If you look at the consumer
confidence report, it was the opposite
of run it hot. It was actually pretty
cold. Like up here in the Northeast
right now, uh we're seeing it's the
consumers are saying jobs are hard to
find. This labor market is relatively
weak. And then we're getting inflation
data showing that inflation, if you look
at trueflation, which is just an
alternative inflation source, that's
saying under 100%. We're thinking
inflation is moderating more than the
markets think. We think the jobs market
is weaker. Uh and you put these things
together, it is the other side of the
boat from this run it haunt narrative.
We also look at this uh dollar
debasement. Yeah, it is the dollar is
weaker than the euro, the yen right now.
It is a currency war all over again. We
had currency wars about a decade ago.
The dollar's frankly winning right now.
That's probably going to help US
exports. It's going to help the US be a
bit more competitive. We don't see this
dollar debasement helping lift all this
riskier assets.
>> So Matt, let's unpack this. So, you're
questioning Run It Hot, you're
questioning dollar debasement, and
you're short inflation. Where does that
leave you on precious metals?
>> Not a huge fan. You know, we're we're
the FOMO trade is one that you really
got to be careful of. It's one of the
easiest mistakes as an investor right
now is to get this fear of missing out
uh type mentality that in trading
geopolitical headlines. Uh precious
metals to us has gone through one of the
most historic runs in history. it was
the sweet spot of these narratives, but
we really think that you would look to
trim into it, uh, take some profits
there, you know, redeploy into higher
quality assets, look for some income,
uh, in in this market where we still
have some really attractive income to
generate.
>> It sounds like, Matt, you like bonds. If
you are going against the inflation
narrative, you're going against this
idea uh, of precious metals, and you're
talking about a currency war uh, that
could lead to cutting rates around the
world. How significantly do you have
conviction about this? Are you buying
30-year JGBs with aggression?
>> That's that's a little rich for my
blood, Lisa. But, uh, the JGB move is
one that is, you know, pretty
significant here. A lot of volatility
off of very low yields still in the US
here. We still have some really higher
yields. We never got yields to come down
that much. And then we've got this nice
roll down now going into 2026. So,
before you always had to fight the short
end of the curve. the yields were so
attractive, but that's been chopped down
and it is likely still to get chopped
down this year. So, the 10-year part of
the curve is our favorite part. Uh the
roll down into the short end looks
really attractive. We've got, you know,
real yield. You know, for retirees that
we work with, if you can get some real
yield, you know, rewind 10, 15 years
ago, you couldn't even get that for
investors. So, we've got real yield.
We're looking at mild uh credit. you
know, investment grade corporates is
about as risky as we're looking to get
here. Really underweight, high yield.
Um, but look, there's other things you
could do in the equity space. You can
take some risk there. In the bond
market, you're not getting paid for that
additional risk. Intermediate,
relatively high quality, keep it boring.
Bonds look attractive here.
>> Matt, how much is this call underpinned
by an idea that we are seeing some froth
come out of the AI trade? The idea that
people are going to be looking for
safety outside of equities after the big
driver of so many of the gains kind of
loses steam.
>> Yeah, it's like a one-legged stool in
terms of the US equity market and
economy. Just the AI momentum was so
massive in 2025 and we think it's going
to be hard to replicate in 2026 on top
of a massive level. And I look, I get
it. There's great businesses there.
They've they've grown earnings well. Uh
but we are looking at more of the midcap
space. Quality value is our mantra and
looking at equities across the world.
Industrials are a place that have high
return on equity. They've got an
earnings growth story here. The one big
beautiful bill will help some of the
capex accelerate into 2026. Uh but we're
looking to you know navigate that and
kind of just you know move away from it.
Find other parts of the portfolio.
investors have never had so much equity
exposure and consumer net worth as they
do today. And it consumer net worth is
$173 trillion dollars. We're in the most
concentrated stock market in history.
Our biggest job as a, you know, asset
allocator is finding better
opportunities or opportunities that can
pound-for-pound meet what the US equity
market and large cap and tech have done
for investors over the last decade.
>> Matt, when you say move away, is it
because you think it's a bubble or you
think it's just overdone?
It's overdone and yeah, I mean the
valuation's just you're tapped out. It's
going to be hard to generate returns out
of the multiple expansion anymore. You
you already got it now. Earnings growth
is the last engine of return. And look,
it's still on. That engine's still
going, but that's the last engine you
have. And we think that's going to
moderate. If you look at the analyst
estimates, it peaks out on a
year-over-year growth rate in Q2 and
then starts to moderate. One of the
things we are learning here in the
markets over the last 12 18 months is
the second derivative. So in Europe for
example, if you go from 1% growth to 2%,
the market is in love with that. Well,
if you go from 20% to maybe 15%, maybe
the market won't love it as much. And
you do get these days where you get this
kind of reaction function. John was
talking about, you know, the issuance of
debt here over the weekend, concerns
about the liquidity or the funding of
some of this AI investment. You can get
a pretty quick turn. So, we want to find
other things in the portfolio that could
step up when AI starts to slow down.
>> And as you see inflation modering, do
you think that potentially a more dovish
Kevin Moore shows up to the Fed when he
gets confirmed?
>> Yeah, we do think that ends up
happening. And look, right now the Fed
is in a really tough spot. You look at
the beige book, right? So, there's
quantifying ways of of kind of looking
at the beige book. So this is how the
Fed kind of asks businesses and
consumers how things are and it's all
over the place. It's the line is just
like, you know, up and down, up and
down. One second it feels like we're in
a recession, one second we're failing
like we're great. Back and forth, back
and forth. And it's really hard. Well,
we think in about 3 to 6 months we're
going to get through all this kind of
macro turbulence and we're going to end
up seeing where we finish out. And in
our view, we're going to be at this kind
of back to precoid normalization,
relatively low growth, 2% inflation, and
in that world, it's lower interest
rates. We're lucky right now, we still
have that higher interest rates. That's
why we want to take advantage of it, but
we think in 6 to 12 months time, we're
kind of in back to this low growth, low
inflation world, and yields will likely
come down with it.
>> Matt, thank you, sir. Lots to think
about after this appearance. Matt Miskin
there of John Hancock. So, let's take a
step back and give us 60 seconds or so.
Consensus view sounds like this. Three
pillars of a better outlook. You've got
easing fiscal, easing monetary policy,
and massive tech capex support in this
market for as long as the eye can see.
Matt Miscin coming out and questioning a
couple of those pillars and saying, "I'm
short inflation. I'm long bonds and I
don't like the move in precious metals."
>> He's saying we're not seeing some sort
of breakout in any kind of growth and
frankly we're not seeing ongoing
investment in AI that continues to the
same pace that we've seen. and frankly
he thinks that it is overdone and that
you do have elevated valuation. So you
take away those pillars and suddenly
you're left with bonds and that seems to
be his aggressive call right now at
least in the United States.
>> He was down a single basis point on tens
this morning 4:22. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump is planning to close the Kennedy
Center for about 2 years for
renovations. The president's decision
coming after he faced significant
backlash to his renaming of the center
to the Trump Kennedy Center. Many
prominent artists have since cancelled
performances and ticket sales have been
on the decline.
Shares of Oracle trading lower in the
pre-market. They've reversed now trading
higher. In fact, the company planning to
raise 45 to50 billion this year to build
additional cloud infrastructure capacity
to meet demand. Its largest cloud
customers include Advanced Micro
Devices, Meta Platforms, Nvidia, and
OpenAI.
President Donald Trump expected to
adjust a critical minerals stockpile to
launch one even with 12 billion in seed
money in a bid to help protect
manufacturers from supply shocks. The
venture called Project Vault is set to
merge nearly 2 billion in private
capital with a $10 billion loan from the
US Export Import Bank to secure minerals
for manufacturers. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, Speaker Johnson's shutdown
strategy.
>> Let's say I'm confident that we'll do it
at least by Tuesday. And because of the
conversation I had with Hakee Jeff, I
know that we've got to pass a rule and
probably do this mostly on our own. I
think that's very unfortunate.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Henred
Trace of Federa Partners live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Things improving slowly. We're still
lower across the board by 0.4% on the
S&P, by 3/4 of 1% on the NASDAQ. If
you're just waking up and tuning into
this, check out precious metals, gold,
and silver. This is child's play. The
stuff we saw earlier was absolutely
ridiculous. Overnight, double-digit
moves in percentage terms on silver.
Massive moves in gold.
>> Yeah, the biggest two-day move in silver
if you count Friday's session on record.
The biggest two-day drop for gold going
back to 1980. Still though, when you
take a look at how far some of these
precious metals have run up, you would
still be up on the year if you bought at
the end of last year. So, there still is
froth to be taken out and that I think
is what a lot of people are looking for.
>> 4761 right now on gold and sis this
morning heading down to Washington DC.
Speaker Johnson's shutdown strategy.
There's a lot of details in this. We
could get deep in the weeds, but we will
do that over the next two weeks. I think
we're on the path to get agreement and I
really hope that everybody will uh will
come to the table in good faith. Well,
let's say I'm confident that we'll do it
at least by Tuesday. We have a
logistical challenge of getting everyone
in town and because of the conversation
I had with Hakeem Jeff, I know that
we've got to pass a rule and probably do
this mostly on our own. I think that's
very unfortunate.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
House racing to end a partial government
shutdown without Democratic support for
DHS funding. Bloomberg's Lauren Dazenski
joins us now for more. Lauren, welcome
to the program. Can we avoid all of
this? Because I tell you, from Wall
Street's perspective, they care about
one thing. Can we get payrolls data this
coming Friday?
>> Well, we know at least that we are
currently in a partial government
shutdown. It looks like they will secure
a deal uh to reopen the government. It
looks like possibly Tuesday is what
Speaker Mike Johnson said. But the big
real sticking point is over this
resolution on uh immigration raids and
this impass over immigration. Democrats
really are concerned and dug in about
trying to step uh really push the
administration and the government really
away from funding Department of Homeland
Security. And uh Mike Johnson sounding
confident about this two-week runway to
negotiate immigration issues, but uh the
Senate would certainly beg otherwise.
They spent months trying to hash out a
deal years ago um and that was scuttled
entirely. Um so where and how the
government can move forward on this
incredibly tricky issue is a little bit
difficult to see.
>> But Lauren, can Speaker Johnson actually
get through just the funding package on
Republican votes alone if not a single
Democrat is willing to sign up for it?
>> He's already said that he's looking for
goodwill from Democrats to make it
happen. essentially indicating that like
he will need some Democratic support in
some way, shape, or form to then at
least kick off this two-week process.
So, I think he's kind of appealing to
goodwill here. Yesterday on Meet the
Press, he said that he sees a path
forward and kind of offered some uh
olive branches that I think he's really
counting on Democrat, some you know,
sympathetic Democrats to to come to his
side.
>> Lauren, appreciate your time down in
Washington. Lori Tzenski there. Uh
joining us now to continue the
conversation, Henrietta Trace of Vader
Partners. Henrietta, welcome. Can we
find an off-ramp here?
>> I think we can find an off-ramp for now.
Um we have until Tuesday as the speaker
suggested. They're going to try to move
things forward tonight around four,
five, six o'clock. I would say for
investors, you you brought up the BLS
data. That's huge. There's also the IRS
funding that lapses and it's tax filing
season now. But when I travel around and
talk to investors, one of the questions
I get a lot is, you know, what's
happening with the president's $2,000
rebate check. Are we going to get that
for the tariffs? And I would encourage
folks to think about the fact that we
just ate all of January up on this
conversation. It fell apart at the last
minute and now we need to spend all of
February basically dealing with the same
government funding bills and then a DHS
package and then we'll have the State of
the Union. It's basically already March
and it's only February 2nd. So for the
investment community, it's really focus
on what will not get done because we're
not doing this. We're not getting a
second reconciliation bill. We're not
getting movement on other items that the
president talks about quite a lot.
>> Well, it seems like leader Chuck
Schumer, Senator from New York, cut a
deal with the White House, but it
doesn't seem like minority leader Hakee
Jeff in the House was privy to that. How
big of a gap right now is it between the
Senate leaders for the Democratic and
the House leader from the Democratic
Party? Yeah, there definitely is a gap
and you can tell because there's not a
vote for the rule as um Speaker Johnson
laid out. I think the disconnect between
Jeff and Schumer is unfortunate. It will
ultimately be bridged. You saw the guys
right behind Jeff, uh Jim Klyber and
Stenny Hoyer saying that they're going
to provide the votes for this package,
encouraging their members to vote yes.
So, I think a lot of this also is to do
with what we went through back in the
original shutdown, which is really
propping up speaker uh potential speaker
Jeff in advance of the next midterm
election cycle, giving him an
opportunity to really stake the ground,
get more recognition, leadership from
the conference on the House side. And I
think that's what this is really
functionally about.
>> Okay. So, if Speaker Johnson can find
the 218 votes and we get back to the
government operating as normal and we
get the BLS data on Friday, they still
need to figure out the DHS funding.
They're going to have two weeks to do
that. Do you see a deal for that new
bill potentially that has to be drafted?
>> Man, I mean, they don't even agree on
whether or not I should be wearing masks
or have name IDs. You know, in the wake
of the shooting in Minnesota, that was
just a really immediate thing that
Democrats gravitated to. I think you see
it out in the ether as well. If you talk
to folks in Minnesota or anywhere else
in the world where ICE has been um
inserted into these cities, they talk
about the mass and they talk about IDs a
lot and video cameras as well. Getting
early messages that Speaker Johnson's
not going to agree to those three
components suggests that we're in for a
very rocky ride over the next two weeks.
I'd be shocked if we were able to pull
it off without having this bleed into,
you know, another two weeks.
>> Henry, I have to say none of us sound
excited about talking about a government
shutdown. pretty much you can just feel
the p of exhaustion fall over the
conversation as soon as you say the two
words government shutdown. I just wonder
if we're moving to a phase where we can
stop this kind of pinata or the sort of
this kicking the can down the road where
we're always talking about this. Maybe
it's two weeks, maybe it's one month,
maybe it's two months, are we going to
get out of this or is this the path of
travel for the foreseeable future?
>> I think welcome to a midterm election
year. Uh look at some of the special
elections that just took place. There's
one in Texas where the swing was 31
points away from Donald Trump. And I
think what Democrats learned in October
is that as long as they can steer the
message, they're winning elections. So I
don't see a reason why this would
necessarily stop. The good news for
investors is that once we get BLS done
with, it will be done with all the way
through September 30th. So we could talk
about DHS, but it won't necessarily be,
you know, hey, will we get the
employment report? Hey, is the IRS going
to be able to process refund checks? and
investors can sort of tune out a little
bit. The immigration narrative in an
election year, I mean, come on, that's
that's a tale as old as time now.
>> There's a sense also that maybe
President Trump is looking for more
concessions when it comes to not just
getting the budget through, but also
getting his new Fed chair picked through
and there is the potential for maybe the
lawsuit to be dropped against Fed Chair
Jay Powell about the renovations. I'm
just wondering how realistic you see
that process in being stymied. Whether
you do see a potential uh path to get
Kevin Worsh as the Fed chair uh by May.
>> You know, I've been working with Senator
Chillis's staff for a really long time
now. They have very high conviction. I
do not think he is messing around. When
he says, "I want this case dropped and
it will block all other nominees and all
other considerations at the Fed." You
should take that very seriously. So,
he's going to need to get that concern
addressed. We have many months before we
actually need to replace Jay Powell. Um,
and they're going to probably take all
of those months. The president will have
to capitulate. We saw the markets
respond sufficiently to give him a
message that he needs to drop this
lawsuit. Jay Powell delivered a very
forceful uh rebuttal to that in real
time as we all saw from that video. I
would take that incredibly seriously.
Um, I don't think Speaker Tis Senator
Tillis is going to get rolled on this in
any way, shape, or form. He's just
getting louder if anything else. So, I
think they will need to address that.
It'll probably take some time.
>> And he made that point when he joined us
on Friday, Henrietta. But once the DOJ
investigation does get wrapped up and
once likely Kevin Walsh gets through the
Senate Banking Committee, how does he
play on the floor? Do you think
Democrats vote for him as Fed chair?
>> I think so. I think you'll have a lot of
aisle crossing. I think that is
generally um the direction of travel
here with this particular nominee. you
probably would have seen much fewer
votes, maybe even a 50-50 split on a
Kevin Hasset, for example. But judging
by the temperature of what I picked up
this weekend from staff on the
Democratic side, there are going to be
some lingering questions. There's a lot
of random stuff in there. Uh but as
somebody who's already been in the in a
similar position, has already gone
through these approval processes, I I
think that he's on a path to getting
bipartisan support.
>> Right. In 2006, he had a voice vote and
he pretty much sailed through
unanimously to join the Fed. And Henri,
I just wanted to end on this point
because you sort of mentioned it
earlier. What went on in Texas over the
weekend. I know it's just a state a
state senate seat, but how this Democrat
won in a plus 17 Trump district when he
was outspent and outraised moneywise, is
this a harbinger, do you think, for the
midterms, or is this just a special
election? It is a special election, but
those the midterm cycle and this pre
premidterm that we're in right now,
we've been in since November, is highly
predictive of electoral outcomes. And
one of the things that I've been
concerned about for Republicans all year
is their effort to redistrict.
Redistricting is all fine and well. You
do not do that in a wave year because
Dems have already wiped away the
potential advantage. I think it's one
seat here or there that you might see
any kind of plus up versus what we what
was happening when we started this year.
Now you're looking at a wave election.
They diluted their districts. So they're
not solid red anymore. They tried to eat
into some of the blue spots. If you're
getting a plus 31 in the Dem favor
trajectory in a state seat in Texas, you
got a problem. So the primaries, I
think, are really fascinating to watch
right now between Cornin and Paxton, for
example. How that's going to play out
and what it's setting up for the
general, I think, is going to be really
exciting for anybody who cares about
elections to watch. These are big swings
we're talking about.
>> Henrietta, thank you. Appreciate your
time. Henry Trace there at Vader
Partners. Do you remember how ridiculous
it was when we were confirming pal to a
second term? Elizabeth Warren called him
a dangerous man. I think Democrats at
the time were obsessing over diversity
and had little interest in the thoughts
of the people that are actually
nominating to the Federal Reserve. It
was a kind of crazy time four or five
years ago as well.
>> Yeah. It seems like right now it's going
to be a very different conversation
where it's going to essentially be down
to do you think that the Fed is an
independent body? Great. Cool. Let's go.
I mean, that's essentially where we're
at.
>> I know, but it I think it's still going
to get be quite testy when it comes to
Kevin Morris. You already heard what
Elizabeth Warren had to say. She's not
excited about this pick from the Trump
administration.
>> Excited about any pick. True, but I I
don't I don't think it's going to sail
through like say he did in 2006, which
was unanimous.
>> If Pal's a dangerous man, I mean, like,
you know,
>> Kevin Walsh has his finger on the
>> Kevin Walsh is going to have a great
time with the senator from Massachusetts
when that hearing takes place. Coming up
on the program, James Steele of HSBC
with some big moves in precious metals
recovering here. Stocks are lower by
just a third of 1% on the S&P 500.
Massive moves in Asia. the Korean Cosby.
The South Korean stock index which had
been absolutely flying year to today up
by more than 20% was down 5 percentage
points overnight. Futures pulling back
on the NASDAQ were down by about 0.6%.
But I have to say relative to what we've
seen elsewhere and what you were seeing
in the European session and Asian
session too. No drama in the bond market
2 10 30 shaping up as follows. Bond
yields on 10 down not even a basis point
of 423. And in precious metals, a
picture of car relative to what we saw
earlier on today. Gold and silver down
by 1 to 2%.
>> Yeah, earlier it was what 10 11% uh
declines in silver. You're seeing some
of the biggest declines on record for
both gold and silver. But it comes after
some of the biggest gains on record for
gold and silver. And it just raises this
question, what is it telling us? If you
listen to gold, what is the message? And
ultimately, people are saying, well,
it's volatile. It's speculative. But
there isn't a clear signal yet. Not yet.
>> We have seen these pockets of
volatility. I keep going back to it.
JGBs, you mentioned crypto. We've seen
it in precious metals. We're seeing it
now in things like energy, Brent, WTI.
It hasn't spilled over into the equity
market. Daryl Kron's going to join us
later in the next hour. And I think
that's a big question. Why is rate vault
still so low given these explosive
events elsewhere? And why is equity
vault given everything we're talking
about still so low as well?
>> Especially if there is a fundamental
question to the AI trade that
potentially is part of the crypto and
the metals and the oil. And that's
something that people are raising as
well to the rate volatility story. It is
fascinating. I feel like people have
just been, you know, sort of stunned
into silence and calm because there have
been all of these different pistons that
are firing at different levels and
they're piss they're firing at different
times and they're all kind of evening
themselves out. People don't have a
sense of where the economy is going and
I think the numbers aren't clarifying
that because we might not even get them
on Friday.
>> Tanya Bono's just about unchanged. 423
payroll is due on Friday. Let's hope we
get the payroll report as we count you
down to the open about 2 hours away.
Let's get you some morning movers.
Yahihara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Disney shares have been
flickering between gains and losses
though we are up about 1% now this
morning as its parks and cruise division
delivered record results in the first
quarter due to higher spending and
higher attendance. Uh that unit is run
by Josh Dearo who of course we have
reported could become its next CEO as
the board closes in on a decision which
seems like a logical next move given the
outperformance of this unit and it's u
the company's biggest profit engine.
Meanwhile the precious metals rally has
come crashing down but as you guys just
said it has been easing as of late. We
are still seeing Barrett Gold down about
1%. Pneumont now up 1%. speaking to the
volatility that you guys have been
talking about. A lot of questions around
what's driving this. I look forward to
your interview with Mr. Steel. And we
end on Nvidia. Those shares are lower,
down 1% in the pre-market as CEO Jensen
Wang tempers expectations around AI
investments. Wang saying that Nvidia's
proposed $100 billion investment into
open AI was quote never a commitment,
signaling a more measured approach. And
it's all about timing. This comes at a
time at a delicate moment for tech given
all the questions around the big AI
spend and of course that means that
Alphabet and Amazon may face increased
investor scrutiny this week when they
report. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
The stock is lower by about 1% of the
pre-market. On our radar this morning,
Disney earnings beating analyst
estimates on both the top and bottom
lines. The company's board is close to
promoting theme park division chairman
Jos Dearo as CEO as Bob Iger announces
plans to step down before his contract
ends. Elsewhere, Oracle shares reversing
earlier losses. The company announcing a
plan to raise up to 50 billion this
year. The company also looking to expand
its cloud infrastructure capacity as AI
demand grows. About half of the funding
will be in debt. That stock is up by
close to 4%. And finally, Cotera and
Devon Energy announcing one of the
largest oil and natural gas deals in
years. The two companies combined to
create a US shell producer with an
enterprise value of about 58 billion.
The stock transaction expected to close
next quarter.
>> We've seen an ongoing consolidation in
the shell patch and I am curious how
much this is trying to get scale ahead
of any additional supply coming from
Venezuela or elsewhere and the fact that
oil prices have come down so much. What
you have seen from some of the larger
companies in the oil space is
efficiency, is job cuts, is all of these
technological advancements. How can you
do that unless you have the scale and
you're seeing a remedy to that
increasingly? The best part of the
Perian Basin is called the Delaware
Basin. And both of these together, their
assets could come close to a million
barrels a day instead of or net acres.
For these two companies, that means
together they can actually maybe start
to fight up against the likes of Exxon
or Diamondback Energy. It could be a lot
more powerful. Maybe if they want to say
do some exploration in places like
Venezuela.
>> If you're tracking the energy story
elsewhere, we are trading softer. We're
down by about four to 5% on Brent and
WTI. Want to stay on top of commodities.
An explosive rally in precious metals
developing into a multi-day route. James
Steel of HSBC writing, "The bull market
appears entrenched but has limits.
Prices may eventually recalibrate lower.
James joins us now for more. Jim, good
to see you.
>> Hello.
>> Second time in about a week, we need to
pick up on some of these moves. Extreme
volatility. I think it's fair to use
that word in silver. Seeing something
similar in gold. How would you
characterize the price action of the
last 12 hours?
>> Well, I think you've got to look at what
was happening last week and into
throughout the weekend. uh any commodity
that moves in a parabolic fashion the
way gold and silver did really invites
volatility and invites profit taking.
You know, there's been a lot of fresh
money injected into the market. There's
always a steady audience for gold and
silver. Uh but since August last year
and really at the beginning of last
year, we saw new entrance come into the
market in a bigger bigger way. not not
just in the US but globally and a a lot
of them may invite more volatility. they
they can leave as quickly as they got
in. And when you get a a drop um it can
it can put some scare into the market.
And you got to forget you you you you've
got to remember rather that this nature
this this sudden rally it's it's not it
hasn't been reversed but it has been
dented. And when we got the news about
uh Kevin Walsh um which was very welcome
to the market and therefore took some
some risk out that's really what started
this and uh and it fed on itself. The
liquidity wasn't great um which made the
decline even even more so.
>> Are the tailwind still in place or does
Kevin Walsh compromise the story?
>> Well, I think anything that brings
stability uh that is positive will will
calm the gold market down a little bit.
It's a safe haven. It's a portfolio
diversifier. Um, uh, now what we've got
to watch out, I think you you made a
good point about about equities. There's
a significant amount of buying in gold
is agnostic to the price move because
it's as a hedge to the equity markets.
You know, uh, managers, asset managers,
portfolio managers, they, you know, they
have to be in equities. They don't have
any choice, but they do have a choice
about whether they hedge or not. And
gold consistently has shown itself to be
a superior portfolio diversifier. So if
we got a further pullback in in in in
equities and I'm I'm not saying that
that we will please don't don't think
that but if we were to uh then typically
you get liquidation following in gold.
Gold gold doesn't go up necessarily
because equities go down because what
what can happen is that those who hold
it as an insurance policy will liquidate
it to raise cash. So you get a secondary
impact uh on on the gold market. That's
because it's behaving in in in the
function and for the reason that you
bought it for.
>> Jimmy, you've been covering commodities
for a long time. How much has the
composition of the buyer base of gold
and silver changed over the past couple
of years as an increasing number of
hedge funds look to gold as a
diversifier away from uh equities as you
see an increasing speculative bet in
these particular precious metals?
>> Yes. effectively the uh it's a much
broader church now that that that uh in
in the in the gold and the silver
markets more more in the gold. Um gold's
one of those things it's it's rather
like the weather. Everybody talks about
it but a lot of people don't know a
great deal about it. Um and and and and
but we've seen uh you know veterans in
the market year in year out. Uh and
lately that that that that's getting
that's getting a lot broader. Um and
that's and that's because it is a good
portfolio diversifier. A lot of times
you can't explain certain moves in the
financial markets and it leads one into
gold. But I think the key I think what
started this gold rally and its present
genesis was the elevation in
geopolitical risks in 2022 with the
invasion of Ukraine because not too long
after that we got a spectacular amount
of central bank buying. center. If you
look at it this way, for up until last
year, for the pre three previous years,
almost one out of every three ounces of
gold that came out of the ground went
into a central bank vault. So why
shouldn't the market have rallied? Um,
and that I think is the key and and they
remain uh they didn't buy quite as much
last year, but they remain good buyers.
>> So I guess another way of asking this is
has the central bank buying been
entirely priced in? have some of the
stable, dependable buyers of gold
already been priced in given how much
the the precious metal has rallied and
now the speculators are just pushing it
up into potentially riskier territory.
>> I think everybody real I think that's a
good point. I think everybody realizes
that the central banks are in the market
and are likely to stay in the market and
that's why uh we would think that any
further sharp decline in gold would
probably bring more of them back in. Um
I don't know if if you can say it's
going in that the the more recent buyers
are highly speculative. I think they're
just reacting to events. You know what
we've seen is an elevation in
geopolitical risk and years before and
this is a change in the gold market. If
you think about for example uh the Gulf
War um Iraq invades Kuwait uh oil and
gold jump. Iraq is expelled from Kuwait.
Oil and gold go right back to the almost
to the dollar to where they were before.
But in the last five or six years, gold
has not given back the gains it's made
on geopolitical risk. It's kept a
portion of them so that when the next
event occurs, the market goes up from a
higher base and that's why we've been
able to build because the risk
atmosphere is is elevated. But James,
this recent drop over the weekend, how
much is that because Iran and the United
States seem willing to try a diplomatic
avenue before Trump potentially weighs
military options?
>> Well, I think that's part of it. Um, we
got uh uh Walsh and then we got some
relaxation on the geopolitical front and
they both came together at a time when a
lot of buying had suddenly come into
gold and the combination there uh
triggered a lot of liquidation and
profit taking. Can we just finish on
your price target for gold? So gold at
the moment is 4783.
Where are you at over the next 12
months?
>> Our average for the year is very close
to that.
>> Um and our our range uh is about 3,950
to 5,500.
>> Has it ever been that wide your range?
>> No.
>> What makes it so wide now?
>> Uh uh the volatility. Um and and the
amount of money that can come in and out
of the market.
>> This is going to be a feature of the
next 12 months. This volatility. Oh, I
think so. I think so. I think I think
we're at a permanently higher level uh
than we have been historically. We're
likely to I'm not saying we're going to
stay at this dollar level, but it's
going to remain higher than it has been.
You know, we're making moves in a in a
day that was the absolute level of gold
when I first started. I know I know I'm
aged, but um nonsense.
>> Uh shortly after our victory in the Bor
War is when I started looking at the the
the the gold the gold price. Um,
but but you know, the gold market had an
absolute number of several hundred below
$500 when I first started covering it
and and now we're making those moves in
a few days.
>> How do you think Gordon Brown feels?
>> Well, you know, as a Scottish
Presbyterian, I was all for him when he
when he came in, but uh that that that
wasn't maybe the best call.
>> No. James, it's good to see you. Thank
you, sir. James Still of HSBC. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here's your Bloomberg
brief with Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. A big win for the
Democrats in Texas. Taylor Remmit
winning a special election for state
senate and flipping a reliably
Republican district that President
Donald Trump won by 17 points in 2024.
It's a race viewed as a bellweather for
next year's midterm elections.
Whimo is aiming to raise about $16
billion in a financing round that would
value Alphabet's autonomous driving unit
at nearly $110 billion. Sourc is telling
us here at Bloomberg the company will
provide about 13 billion while the rest
will come from outside investors
including Sequoia Capital DST Global and
Dragon Investment Group.
Tough news for those of us ready for the
weather to warm up. Hungadoni Phil saw
his shadow this morning's sunrise in
western Pennsylvania today here on
Groundhog Day. That means six more weeks
of winter rather than an early spring. A
silver lining though punks Tony Phil
he's right just 35% of the time. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program pricing a washled
fed.
>> His history is that of being somewhat
hawkish. At the same time, he's been
aligned uh with President Trump in the
White House in recent remarks. So, it's
not clear to me um which Kevin Worsh
will show up in May.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Mark Shaw,
the former chief of staff to former vice
president Mike Pence. Live from New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Woke up this morning around 2:00 a.m.
Eastern time. Checked out Bloomberg
anywhere. Markets falling out of bed.
Several hours later, this futures down
by a third of 1% on the S&P. Things are
calm. We're down about 0.6 Six on the
NASDAQ. Things are calmer in the bond
market. Two's 10 sterling shaping up as
follows. Yields just about unchanged on
the session now. Anchored at the front
end. On the longer end of the curve,
down by not even a basis point and
precious metals, wild swings, double
digits in percentage terms on silver.
Silver now down by not even 2%. This
reminds me actually when we were in
Davos and we were having conversations
with people outside of the US and they
were saying, "Oh my goodness, the world
is falling. Look at all of these
headlines. Everything has changed." Then
we talk to US investors and they say, "I
ignore it. It's noise. Just take a look
at this, this, this is, this this." And
it's just essentially uh much more
stable. You're seeing that kind of
behavior play out in markets in real
time.
>> Equities recovered very quickly. We're
down by about a third of 1% on the S&P.
And Savandis this morning, pricing a
washled Fed.
>> His history is that of being somewhat
hawkish both in terms of inflation
vigilance and interest rates. and he
continues to to talk about reducing the
balance sheet, reducing the footprint of
the Fed in markets. At the same time,
he's been aligned uh with President
Trump in the White House in recent
remarks. So, it's not clear to me um
which Kevin Walsh will show up in May.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
future of the Federal Reserve in focus
as investors anticipate policy changes
once former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh
returns to the central bank. Joining us
now to discuss is Mark Short, the former
chief of staff to former vice president
Mike Pence. Mike, welcome back to the
program. Let's go through some of the
details on some of the endorsements
we've had over the past few days. Gita
Gopernaf, Muhammad Aleran, the prime
minister of Canada, Mark Carney, and the
list goes on and on and on. Is Kevin
Walsh a pretty conventional Republican
pick to lead the Federal Reserve?
>> Look, I think he is. He's somebody who's
been on the reserve before and I think
that of the options it's a pretty strong
pick for the president. I I know there's
some people who question, you know, what
these hearings are going to be like when
he gets there because of positions he
took against quantitative easing after
the financial crisis and reconciling
that with a very dovish approach now.
But um look, if if the Senate can uh can
confirm Tulsi Gabard to DNI and Christy
Gnome to DHS, I don't think it's going
to be much of a challenge for them to
confirm Kevin Wars here to the Fed.
>> Mark, you were in the room in Trump one
when the debate was going on who Trump
was going to pick and he ultimately
landed landed on Minutuchin's pick of
Jay Powell, which I know was not VP Mike
Pence's choice. What do you think went
behind this process? why Kevin Worsh was
picked and not the other Kevin.
>> Well, look, I I think in the in there
were basically three finalists in the
last goround. Uh there was Jay Powell,
there was Kevin Worsh, and there was
John Taylor. And I think that um um
there were different camps aligned with
each. But the reality is that um Steve
Minutuchin made the the appeal to the
president that when the president asked,
he said, "Who's going to keep rates
lower?" And Minutuchin was clear and
saying it would be J. Pow. And I think
that's what the president was looking
for. It was less of a question about
sound monetary policy. It was a question
of who's going to push for lower rates.
And um I mean there's an irony of course
now that the president is upset with J.
Pal for not having rates lower. But I
have to believe that there's been you
know that same conversation has repeated
itself this go round and I think there's
probably been assurances that that worse
is going to adopt a dovish approach
here. But that's why it's so precarious
given the fact that when he was at the
Fed he actually was calling for a
hawkish tighter monetary policy. Do you
think his views have truly evolved or is
he just trying to be politically correct
in the moment to get a job?
>> I I don't know that I can I can put
myself in in his shoes and know that. I
think that uh I do think he has
certainly the credentials here again as
I said of the of the options. I think
there's probably a lot of comfort on the
street and comfort in the Senate that
this is where the president landed. Um,
and he's going he is going to have to
address the the the apparent change in
position from where he was after the
financial crisis to where he is today.
Um, but uh but nonetheless, I I think
that he's going to have a term that's
going to extend far beyond President
Trump's term. And so uh he perhaps is
playing a long game here, too. Mark, I'd
love your take on uh what we heard from
Tom Tillis, the North Carolina senator
who seems to not care at all uh since
he's not running for re-election and is
going to block the uh process until the
DOJ lawsuit or or complaint against the
Fed is lifted. Do you think that he has
more popular support among sitting
Republicans than he did maybe a couple
weeks ago, not just with this, but in
general?
>> He probably does. I think there are
others who were um applauding some of
the positions he's taking but feel they
can't take the same because they'd be
concerned about their own re-election
options. But, you know, I I I I think
that as it comes to, you know, he's
going to block this until the
investigation is concluded on Jerome
Pal. I think most people assume the
investigation drum pal is less on the
merits and more an effort to pressure
the Fed to lower rates. And so at the
end of the day, is the White House going
to say, um, we're going to continue the
investigation or going to say, hey,
we've got our own guy now to run the
Fed, so let's pull back on the
investigation. It seems like at the end
of the day, it's it seems to me that
this is not something that's going to
continue in next year, as potentially
the president suggested, you know, on
Air Force One the other night. It seems
to me that they'll definitely be in a
desire to pull back on the investigation
to allow this to move forward. I guess
uh I was getting at something bigger
especially because we are in midterm uh
year where we're going to be getting a
government shutdown evidently every two
weeks and I'm just wondering Mark going
forward at what point you start to see
uh Republicans look at either distancing
themselves from President Trump's
policies are you seeing any ground swell
of that especially after the special
election in Texas after the mid midterm
outcomes are you seeing anything like
that or is uh is it sort of a case by
case situation
>> I think it's more case by case but I
think It's going to continue to ramp up,
I would say, over the course of the
year. And it's not just Texas. I mean,
there's been a series of special
elections in deep red states of
Mississippi and Georgia in which
Republicans have been defeated. And so,
there's clearly a trend building at this
point, and there's no doubt that other
Senate Republicans are recognizing that.
However, they also know the president
has enormous sway over the base and
particularly in primaries. And so I
would look to see more Republican
senators distance themselves after you
get through primary season, but being
reluctant to do so until they've secured
their nomination and then that's that's
behind them. So uh so yeah, Tillis is in
a different position. Uh I don't I don't
anticipate you're going to see too much
more of that in the short term, but
perhaps you know toward the summer
months, I think as members look toward
the general election in November and
they're behind their primaries, that's
when you'll begin to see more members
begin to perhaps take positions similar
to Tillis. Mark, on a final note on
Kevin Wars, the president spoke at a
dinner over the weekend. I'm reading a
quote Washington Post had. Someone in
the room actually said to me, "All of
this is accurate. Quote, "If he doesn't
lower interest rates, I'm suing his ass
ass off." And the president says, "I'm
kidding." Mark, do you think he's
actually kidding or is Kevin Worsh
potentially going to face the same fate
as Jay Pal if he doesn't lower interest
rates?
>> Well, I think he would face the same
fate if he didn't lower interest rates.
But again, I I think this process has
played out for a while. It's pretty hard
for me to see that the president would
not have moved forward with his
nomination unless he had pretty strong
assurances that that Worsh was looking
to lower rates when he got there. And
so, um, so yeah, I think he would, if he
didn't, I think he would face the same
pressure from the president. I think the
president is somebody who likes lower
rates for lots of reasons. He made his
resources in real estate. The president
believes that it's better for exporting
and for manufacturing base if the dollar
is depreciated. And I think he knows the
impact on equity markets when rates are
lower. And so I think he wants to
continue to push for that agenda
regardless of who the personnel are
inside the Fed.
>> Hey Mark, thanks for making time for us.
Mark Short there, the former chief of
staff to the former vice president Mike
Pence. I'm intrigued by the drunken
millus legendary investor and the extent
to which we could see Besson and Walsh
work well together over the next several
years. Yeah, with Stan's uh guidance not
implying anything like that. That's not
where I was going. Trading, but the
toutelage of Stan drunk Miller coming
very much to the government.
>> That was better framed towards the end.
Coming up, Daryl Kron of Ws Fargo, Jason
Thomas of Carlile, Andrew Hongor of
City, Oxana Aronghov of JP Morgan asset
management. The third hour of Blindberg
surveillance up next.
Of
the four candidates that were out there,
I would say that Worsh was probably the
worst.
>> I expect him to be tested in the same
way that markets tested every single
central banker.
>> This is going to be a very interesting
confirmation process.
>> I fully expect that Kevin Oris will get
through eventually.
>> What would be more important is how the
economy evolves.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this. We're
negative 0.5% on the S&P 500, down by
3/4 on the NASDAQ on a 3-day slide on
the benchmark. Will it become day four?
In the bond market, yields just about
unchanged throughout the session. In
commercial, in the precious metals part
of the market, anything but unchanged.
Precious metals all over the place.
Silver down by 16% at one point. Now
we're down by four. Gold's down by
three. I can't key it up. 4751 on gold
this morning.
>> The volatility has been absolutely
incredible. The records we've ever seen
when it comes to some of the dips in
silver and frankly the biggest decline
for two days going back to 1980 for
gold. James Steel was just talking about
the composition of the buyers of gold.
It had been central banks. It had been
these stable reliable buyers. Suddenly
every hedge fund under the sun is
turning to gold as a diversifier away
from equities. And then you get
speculators on top of that. And suddenly
the volatility is here to stay and that
I think is something we could see for
the foreseeable future.
>> He's got a massive range for gold for
the next year or so. A range of three
something thousand to up to 5K. And I
asked him like has your range ever been
that wide before? And he said no. This
is going to be a feature of the next 12
months. Tons of volatility with a higher
floor.
>> We could see 3900 to 5500 in 2 weeks. I
mean, that's essentially where we're at
right now because of the lack of trading
as it gets to sort of these uh
nosebleleed areas in terms of
valuations. It just raises a question.
Does it act as the same diversifier, the
same the same stabilizer if it has this
volatility? And that ultimately is going
to be a question for a lot of hedge
funds that are turning to this rather
than say the US dollar or treasuries.
>> Lots of earnings in the week ahead.
We'll get Alphabet on Wednesday, Amazon
on Thursday, and hopefully we'll get
this on Friday. A payroll report. We've
tried to avoid this topic over the last
week or so. Can we avoid a government
shutdown?
>> Speaker Johnson says we're going to
avoid it. He says he's confident, let's
say by Tuesday, that is tomorrow, as we
said over the weekend, that this will be
wrapped up. But the path is not going to
be easy because he has to go through a
procedural matter of having a rule. Then
basically making sure most of the
Republicans show up or trying to get
some Democrats to agree to this even
though minority leader Hakee Jeff told
him over the weekend, do not rely on
Democrats for this vote vote. So
basically maybe tomorrow but maybe not.
It's not stuck in set in stone that
we're going to get this. So Friday is a
bit iffy.
>> That's a story down in Washington DC.
The story for big tech AI funding needs
and a bit of push back from Nvidia's
Jensen Wang. No push back to this
though. Oracle kicking off an eight-part
US dollar bond offering with a big goal
and some big fundraising.
>> Yeah, $50 billion with more than half of
it coming from debt financing.
Interestingly, you are seeing Oracle
shares significantly higher in
pre-market. Although this comes after
some significance declines so far this
year, it raises this issue with Oracle.
How are they going to fund some of their
big promises, particularly tied to open
AI, this gives some clarity to that.
Nonetheless, there still are some very
big questions about whether Oracle is
overcommitting, especially given the
pullback from Nvidia and what price are
they going to pay in debt markets. How
willing will the debt markets be to
finance this?
>> Oracle up in the pre-market on the
equity side of things. were higher by
about 6%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo
with stocks heading for a fourth
consecutive day of losses. Jason Thomas
of Carlile as AI bubble concerns are
growing and Andrew Hodenhorse of City
looking ahead to the January payrolls
report. We begin this hour with stocks
sliding to kick off a new trading month.
Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo writing,
"Vatility is picking up rather quickly
centered in currency volume, commodity
volume, and rates volume. Thus far, it
has not spilled materially yet into
equity volatility. It's a market to
watch for vulnerabilities and extremes.
Daryl joins us now for more. Darl,
welcome to the program. We've seen that
volatility pick up almost across all
these different asset classes with the
exception of a couple. They're the big
ones, bonds and equity. What gives?
>> Yeah, good morning, John. Um, I think
that's right. You know, it's interesting
because as the currency volatility and
the commodity volatility really have
been the epicenter of this, you haven't
seen it as much in rates and certainly
in equities. The VIX this morning at 18.
You know, remember in November and
October of last year. The VIX was at 28
uh intraday in both cases. So, so far
equities have not spilled through. A lot
of this was the push out of some
leveraged and weak hands in the silver
and the gold markets on the speculation.
It really hasn't changed the outlook for
the strong economy, US GDP growth. It
hasn't changed the outlook for earnings
for companies up to this point. So, it's
more episodic and idiosyncratic about
where it's happening. But you do have to
be careful about not to the point about
not being um overly exposed in places
where there are extremes or
vulnerabilities.
>> Well, where do you think we should be
focused on right now? We've had the blow
up in JGBs, if we can call it that. the
convulsions we've seen in both Bitcoin,
crypto more broadly and elsewhere and
things like precious metals, what's next
and what would you be wary of?
>> Yeah, I think you have to watch and
maybe lean away from in the short term
some of the uh liquidity proxies. So,
Bitcoin is a great example down 12% in
the past uh week basically and year
overyear if you look at it from where it
was uh last year this time down 22%.
Right? So it's really struggled and it's
predominantly a liquidity proxy.
Certainly some of the commodities have
been these liquidity proxies as well. So
I think you stay away from those and you
stay to more the tried andrue. We still
like large cap US midcap US. We would
fade the small caps even though they
outperformed uh large by almost 500
basis points in the month of January.
We're concerned about the durability.
And again, if you want to stay away from
kind of the edges of the market where
liquidity extremes are the the the most
prominent or lack thereof, you've got to
kind of fade smalls, we think, at this
point.
>> Darl, would you go back into bonds as a
liquidity proxy that seems to work amid
this volatility?
>> It's a great question, Lisa. I mean,
it's what everybody's trying to figure
out, right? You know, is the US Treasury
the safe haven? Can you rely on it
again? Um so we're very selective. We're
what we call bullet strategy right now
on fixed income. Um right in the
intermediate section of the curve. We
think the steepness is the best there.
The roll down effect of what investors
are getting. We still think on the long
side of the curve there's risk there. We
would not go out and reach for yields in
today's environment. Certainly if US GDP
growth picks up into 26 like we think we
do, you've still got to price a little
more growth premium into the long side
of the curve. Oil prices having moved
higher admittedly down today, but having
moved higher also are going to put a
little bit of a tailwind in inflation,
right? We saw the PPI numbers last week.
So, if you start building in growth in
inflation premiums on the long side of
the curve, we think there's still some
risk there that investors should kind of
fade on the long side of the curve.
>> This is the difficulty about this
moment. You have sort of these three
prongs. On one hand, you've got the
economy. On the other hand, you've got
geopolitics. We haven't even touched
Iran. And then, of course, you have the
AI trade. in this question of how far
that can really power things at a time
where valuations have gotten pretty
elevated. How much are you worried that
that particular leg is being called into
question as we see the likes of Jensen
Huang Wang talk about the lack of
commitment to the hundred billion
dollars for open AI and as you see other
signs that maybe people are pushing
back.
>> Yeah, it's a really great question Lisa.
I mean, what most people don't realize
is they think when they stare at their
portfolio or their screens that tech is
still the engine that's powering things
forward. Tech and financials are two of
the three sectors that are actually down
year to date. It's been this heavy
rotation into energy, materials,
industrials. In fact, if I broke tech
down, the the dispersion between the
halves and the halves are almost
unbelievable in the first month of the
year. Semiconductors up 15% for the
month. software inside of tech down 13%.
So you've got almost a 30% dispersion
just between semis and software. So
you're going to have to go in and really
be selective even within the gig sector
itself or the technology sector where
you want to have that exposure as we
move out into 2026 on the calendar.
>> Well, to Lisa's point though, when you
hear Jensen Wong talking about things
with Open AI, it was never a real
commitment and behind the scenes he's
talking about some issues he has with
what the company is doing. Do you want
to not have that direct exposure to the
massive hyperscalers?
>> Yeah, it's a good question, Amir. I I
still think the to me the funding
element of this is somewhat um
overplayed. I don't think it's this, you
know, circular or difficulty getting the
funding that these hyperscalers or
others need. I actually think the real
choke point that ends up as we play this
thing out through 2026 um becoming the
issue is can I get the energy can I get
the industrial companies that can supply
on time and on budget with what the
build is going to suggest for all the
capex that we're counting on and
delivering out into 2026. So, frankly,
I'm a little less worried about some of
the funding noise and concerns about,
you know, will they get that versus more
about how do we get to kind of phase two
of this, right? We've solved the
algorithms. We know we've made the
commitments. We'll get the funding. Now,
the question is, can I get the energy?
Can I get the industrial companies to
help build the facility, the data
centers and other things on time and and
on budget and as expected to meet the
capex high bar of elevation that's
sitting out there for 2026?
>> Jonathan has brought this up a lot of
times too when it comes to the calendar
for the rest of the year. The open AI
IPO though, how important is that for
this trade?
>> Um, I think it's I I wouldn't say it's
important for the trade overall. I think
it's one milestone or one, you know,
element on the confidence factor, right?
Will investors show up and still pay
some of those lofty valuations on
expectations to come, right? Because the
valuations are going to be tough to
stomach quite frankly when you start
looking at what what those things are
going to end up being based off of
current or next year type of earnings.
So, you're really betting on um the true
future of these are game changers and
what's happening. So I don't think it
derails the trade. I frankly what I
think my biggest concern when I look out
on the calendar and Marie into 2026 is
if we start to see capex expectations
and budgets roll over, right? You don't
have to have them stop on a cathartic
heartbeat stop. You just need them to
either show signs of peaking across the
broad sector and starting to decelerate.
And I think that's what will be more
concerning for investors out into 2026.
>> Hey Darl, it's good to see you. Thank
you, sir. Darren Croc there of Wells
Fargo with the latest on this market.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey,
Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Nvidia CEO Jensen
Wong saying the company's proposed $100
billion investment in OpenAI was quote
never a commitment. The Wall Street
Journal had earlier reported the
investment plan announced in September
had stalled after some people inside
Nvidia expressed doubts about the deal.
Wong downplaying the report saying
Nvidia will continue to invest in the
chat GPT maker.
In sports, Carlos Alcarez is the
youngest tennis player in history to
complete a career grand slam. Alcarz
beating NovakJokovic in the Australian
Open finals. After dropping the first
set, the 22-year-old won the next three
frames to win the tournament. Alcarez
saying he must get a or he may get a
kangaroo tattoo to commemorate his
victory.
Melania, a documentary about the first
lady had a stronger than expected
opening weekend at the box office
despite poor reviews. According to
Comscore, the film by Amazon and MGM
Studios took in $7 million at US and
Canadian theaters. The movie focuses on
Melania Trump during the 20 days before
President Trump's return to the White
House last year. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John, thank you.
Novakjovich is such a ridiculous
athlete. Just think about how many grand
slams there are every year. There's
four. and he's been in the finals 38
times.
>> I like that you just skipped over the
millennia.
They're incredible specimens.
>> Insane.
>> I think that truly amazing creatures
that just defy humanity.
>> And to think Alcarez could keep up with
all of this over the next 20 years or
however long he plays the game. It's
just phenomenal what these guys do.
>> Yeah. I mean, the training that goes
into that, I feel tired already.
>> And Rafael looks ancient now. He's
retired. They sort of like age 20 years
after these guys stepped in. Well, I
understand why.
>> Yeah. Okay. Of course, I'm skipping over
the movie and doing the sport.
>> Be very so predictable.
>> Why would I talk about the movie that
none of us have watched?
>> Well, true.
>> I know people who watched it.
>> Really? They got a review.
>> What did they say?
>> Um, they said no. Everybody
>> They went to the movies.
>> They did. They did. I know some people
watch the movies. Yeah. They did it for
more comedy than anything else.
>> All right. Okay.
>> Let's move on.
>> Happy to. I tried to. Up next, the
morning calls plus Jason Thomas of
Carlile as AI bubble concerns are
growing. That conversation up next
there's a whole lot of stuff hitting the
market all at once and we said coming
into this reporting season that it was a
chance for investors to kind of push the
macro aside and focus on the micro. Uh
the macro's been pretty pesky in terms
of sticking around in unusual ways and I
would also argue that the micro has been
a little bit underwhelming. We've
described this as slightly squishy, not
a disaster, um but not good. That was
Lori Cvescina of RBC Capital Markets
joining the program a little bit earlier
on this morning. If you're just joining
us, good morning. Equity futures on the
S&P negative by a half of 1% on the
NASDAQ. We're down by 3/4 of 1%. That's
the price action. Here's your morning
calls. First up, Morgan Stanley. Dan
growing commander underweight and
slashing its price target. The firm
citing vulnerability in the Medicare
Advantage business. Elsewhere, Citizens
JMP raising its price target on Amazon.
The analyst expecting the tech giant to
benefit from its partnership with
Anthropic. And finally, Jeffre
reiterating a buy on Oracle, saying the
company is committed to its aggressive
AI expansion. Sticking with Oracle,
sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
cloud company is tapping the debt market
once again. Oracle looking to raise cash
in an eightpart bond deal. Jason Thomas
of Carab tracking the whole ecosystem
for us and he joins us now. Jason,
welcome to the program. I was reading a
note of yours at the turn of the year.
Absolutely fantastic read actually
available on the Carlile website. So I
suggest everyone should read it in full
where you talk about the ability to be
bullish on the technology but still
skeptical on the valuations. Can you
just run us through all of that?
>> Sure. I I think if you if you look
historically what you see is that the
market in general the equity market has
proven quite a identifying truly
transformation transformative
technologies. So if you look today uh
and and look at the the uh cyclally
adjusted price to earnings ratio, the
prior times that it reached comparable
levels was 1929 and 2000. That sounds
kind of scary given we all know what
happened thereafter. But in both cases
you had a technology it was
electrification in the 1920s. You went
from roughly 30% of homes to 70% of
homes electrified in about a 8-year
period. What one could imagine just how
exciting that that technology would be
in a world where uh homes were
illuminated through kerosene lamps where
most of the mechanical power for
manufacturing still came from steam.
Similarly, of course, it was the
internet uh that that led to the big
runup in valuations in 2000 that the
potential for you know really just again
the transformative change. And so in
both cases it wasn't that the technology
fizzled. I mean certainly electricity
didn't prove to be some sort of fad. it
was that the market wasn't so good at
thinking second third order effects. The
capital really rushed in to the hardware
bottlenecks and and of course it was a
huge runup uh in in both the the capex
in terms of what the investment that was
uh being deployed but also of course the
valuations and almost all of the
economics ultimately was more derivative
and diffuse. It was the users of the
technology where the really the value
accumulated as opposed again to those
hardware bottlenecks.
>> Jason, if you fast forward to today in
2026, we're seeing Oracle selling 20
to$25 billion this morning of bonds to
finance some of their data center
buildouts and their cloud computing.
When you see all of the debt issuance
tied to some of the hardware aspects of
the bottlenecks that we're talking
about, does that give you pause? Does
that raise concerns in your mind?
Oh, absolutely it does. Again, this this
is essentially what we saw in both of
those prior episodes. This is where the
capital is channeled today. The
bottleneck everyone agrees is compute
and of course the electricity to power
uh that that computational capacity. So,
so that's where all the money is moving
in. But if the past is prologue, it's
actually going to be the downstream
users where where most of the uh the
gains are. So for example in electricity
the big runup in valuations were the
electric holding companies and it was of
course the electric equipment
manufacturers but when you looked 10
years later it was the durable goods
manufacturers all of a sudden you had
products like electric blankets stoves
refrigerators that didn't previously
exist. So it was the electricity that
allowed them to drive down the
production costs dramatic increase in
productivity but also created a market
for the service. In addition,
electrification spawned an entirely new
industry because of the radio.
Initially, radios were just viewed as
durable goods like any others. The
economics acrewed to the manufacturers
of radios. But by the end of the decade,
of course, you had an entirely new
industry, sponsored content. Uh, and in
the Great Depression, even as radio
sales fell, everything else in the
economy fell, advertising on the radio
rose sevenfold. Again the internet
birthed industries like social media,
search. So even as uh the initial
capital went into companies like Cisco,
of course the constraint then was
bandwidth. Uh it was the the need for a
new network architecture. So I think
people the message is that people should
not be so concerned about the absolute
increase in overall market
capitalization. The concern should be
the concentration where it's been
allocated. And I do think that some of
the rotation that we've observed this
year is just a sense among many
investors that they cannot allow all of
their incremental risk budget to be
consumed by data centers by by this this
choke point and and having a much
broader view of of where the value of AI
is ultimately going to acrue. So Jason,
to put you on the spot a bit, do you
think that some of the recent volatility
and selloff in some data center names or
some big tech names is the beginning of
a trend has some room to go in terms of
the deflation of some of these
valuations as the dispersion continues
and as people try to shift away from
some of this concentration risk?
>> Yes, I do. And and the reason I say that
at the end of last year having
conversations with very large capital
allocators, they're looking at their
portfolio in real estate, in
infrastructure, in credit increasingly,
and of course the big cap uh equities
and and again they see that all of their
incremental risk budget for really the
last two years has been consumed by this
single thematic and and not just AI,
we're talking about computational
capacity for AI. So, so I think that
this makes many people uneasy and
they're looking for ways to diversify.
So, and and I think it's an important
point because you don't actually need to
be bearish. You you don't need to think
that the expected returns on some of
this development won't materialize. All
you have to do is just be conscious of
your credential concentration limits to
want to back off a bit.
>> Jason, you've written about this
extensively. Just as a final point, this
shift from asset light to asset heavy,
do you think there's been a decent
enough appreciation for what that means
for valuations for some of these firms?
>> No, no, not at all. I mean, this this is
really, I think, the key. When you look
at the last the the decade prior to the
onset of the pandemic, the companies
were very richly valued, but deservedly
so. They could grow revenue without any
incremental hiring, any incremental
investment. everything was just falling
to the bottom line to free cash flow.
And so you had free cash flow yields in
many cases that were in excess of 100%
when when measured relative to book
value. So of course the valuation should
be extremely high in those
circumstances. The these are like money
printing machines. Today of course
you've seen the decline in free cash
flow relative to net income. And I think
that as you move into a a model that is
somewhat different where where you are
going to have to accumulate more
physical onbalance sheet capital you
have to have a fundamental rethink of
the appropriate valuation and I just
don't think that has happened to date
and and the big question is also a lot
of the the idea was that this capex was
going to be frontloaded. I'm not so sure
that that markets think that way
anymore. It looks like there's going,
you know, the question of depreciation
rates, functional obsolescence, just the
the product replacement cycles. There
could be a lot of maintenance capital
spending going forward. And if so, I
think that that calls for a a more
fundamental rerating of many of these
formerly assetike businesses.
>> Jason, thoughtprovoking stuff. Thank
you, sir. Jason Thomas there of Carl the
down by about 3/4 of 1%. experience some
of the things that Jason's talking about
when we were over at the World Economic
Forum in Davos. So when you ask people
about valuations, they just keep
defaulting to the technology. The
technology is going to be really
powerful. It's going to do this, this,
and that. And it's really difficult to
get them come to come back to focus on
the valuation story and the kind of
details that Jason's going through.
>> Yeah. And the point that he was just
making at the end there with you, this
idea that they had been asset light and
that the uh chips that they're buying
might have a three-year cycle. They're
going to have to invest more in this.
And we saw that with Microsoft. They
can't spend enough to keep up with the
demand, but they need to keep spending
more. So, it raises this question about
can you have a transformational
technology that's at a valuation that's
way too high for what the market
currently is considering.
>> Stocks a little bit softer this morning.
We're down 4/10 of 1% on the S&P. Coming
up next, we'll catch up with Andrew
Honhorse of City. Looking ahead to
Friday's payrolls report. Plus, Yihara
has your morning movers. Oracle rising
as clarity comes to its data center
funding needs. That stock is up by 5%.
The opening bow 60 minutes away. Futures
down across the board, recovering
slightly. We're down a half of 1% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 3/4 of
1%. The Russell Small caps down by 0.4.
With your morning movers, let's cross
over to Yahara for more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Oracle shares have been
swinging wildly this morning. All of it
stemming from its plans to raise up to
$50 billion dollar to fund its AI comp
cloud expansion. At first, that news had
sent shares in the red, but they turned
positive after both Fitch and Moody's
affirmed their credit rating on Oracle.
Uh the headlines have been fast and
furious. First, we had our reporting
that has kicked off an eightpart dollar
bond sale and Oracle moments ago putting
out a statement that it plans to sell
$20 billion in common stock from time to
time. Shares are up 4 and a4%.
Meanwhile, moving on to US rare uh rare
earth stocks. They are rising in the
pre-market. USA rare earth up 6% as we
report on a planned announcement by
President Trump for a 12 billion
strategic minerals stockpile stockpile.
It's being dubbed project vault and it
would be the first of its kind stockpile
stockpile for the US private sector. Of
course, all part of an part of an effort
to reduce reliance on China for these
critical supplies. And we end on Disney.
It had earnings uh shares are now down 1
and a.5% even though the company
delivered uh its parks and cruises
division delivered record results in the
first quarter. Uh more people are going
to the park and they're spending more
money. That unit is run by do Josh Dearo
who we report may become the next CEO as
the board closes in on a decision. John
>> Yhara, thanks for the update. Appreciate
it. Let's turn back to the economy. A
busy week on deck headlined by the
payrolls report due on Friday. Bloom's
Mike McKe has more for us. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. This is the first
week we can say this in a long time. All
of the data are going to be up to date,
but we're not looking at the effects of
the government shutdown that we had last
fall. We're still going to have to wait
and see what happens with the government
shutdown this time. Today we get ISM
manufacturing. We'll see whether or not
uh there is any expansion. The forecast
is for contraction still. Tuesday jolts
and it's the December number not behind
there. Wednesday ADP ISM services and
don't forget the Treasury refunding.
Thursday jobless claims and as you
mentioned Friday's big day, January jobs
and we get Michigan cinnamon right now
in terms of January jobs and it's early.
We will see some changes in these
forecasts, but the consensus at the
moment is for 65,000 jobs, which would
be an improvement. The whisper number
though, Wall Street's a little more
pessimistic at the moment, 52,000. No
change in unemployment scene and a
decline in average hourly earnings. The
other thing to keep in mind, guys, is
that this is the month in which we get
those updated numbers for uh payrolls
and for uh the overall population. And
so we could see a real change in how
many jobs were created last year. Chris
Wallers uh already predicting zero zip
natada is the way he put it. And that
could change the political narrative in
Washington quite a bit.
>> Matt McKe, thank you sir. With the
latest Dan in Washington DC and what we
can expect on Friday, the payrolls
report, the estimate is pretty wide. 130
is the high, -10 is the low. Thank you
Santandere and Standard Chandler for
those two extremes. Yeah, and I was
reading Steve Englander's note uh from
Standard Chartered about why he has -10.
Uh and he's talking about the birth
death model and how it's coming out and
they're going to do all of these
revisions lower in terms of the
population and how that plays out. What
do we do with that number? Will we get
that number? How will these look? I
mean, honestly, how much weight can we
put on a number that we may or may not
get on Friday that may or may not
disclose something real versus changes
in models that are coming once a year?
Steve just published US data quality
more fool's gold than gold standards. I
think that speaks to how Steve feels
about the data that comes on Friday and
beyond. Andrew Honhorse of City says
this. The employment data is unlikely to
materally change the outlook for the
labor market. We expect a solid 135
added in January and the unemployment
rate remaining unchanged at 4.4%.
Andrew, that puts you at the top end of
the estimates for this coming Friday.
Walk us through why you're looking for
that, but also looking for 75 basis
points of cuts through the year. Yeah,
top end of the estimates in terms of
where that payroll's number is going to
be, but it goes back to what Lisa was
talking about, what you're all talking
about, which is what does this data
really tell us about what's going on in
the labor market. So, we know we have
these issues with the birth death model.
I would actually agree with Steve
Englander that if we get a big update to
that birth death model, you you could
get a zero or a negative number. And I
think that's where the the underlying
pace of job growth is running somewhere
right around zero. And that's what we
had Governor Waller talking about in his
descent from the Fed staying on hold
last week. Um so it's a complex job
market um is a complicated situation and
complicated data. Um but I I would go
back to that survey that the conference
board puts out and they just ask people
do you think jobs are plentiful or do
you think jobs are hard to get and month
after month people are telling us jobs
are becoming harder and harder to get.
So I think it is a loosening labor
market. Lots of statistical issues.
Residual seasonality used to be
something people would look at me very
funny when I said now people are all
familiar with it. Um, every year we get
stronger jobs data at this time of year.
We're building building that into our
forecast. That's why we have 135.
>> What do you think break even is? What's
the break even rate?
>> I think the break even rate with the way
that the data are adjusted now. It seems
like we can run about 50,000 jobs per
month and 50,000 jobs per month as
reported by payrolls is leading the
unemployment rate to stay stable where
it is. But there is a question about
that 50,000. Should you be subtracting
something like 60,000 from it because
those payrolls numbers keep being
overstated? We'll get more information
about that today or on Friday when we
get the the the new report. Um so that
that that break even has slowed down.
But again, I think that the key thing
here is do we call a job market strong
if we have essentially zero increase in
labor supply and zero hiring? I don't
think that's a strong labor market. Can
you have a strong economy though if you
don't have a strong labor market? I
mean, this has been sort of a feature of
the entire market for a while. The labor
market has been sluggish at best and yet
the economy has continued to grow pretty
dramatically. So, at what point does
that become a hamper uh potentially to
any kind of re uh further acceleration?
>> Yeah, I think eventually it does. I
mean, there's growth and then there's
whether it's broad-based growth or
fairly focused growth. And to the extent
that we're getting growth from things
that are AI related, software and data
centers, a lot of those kinds of areas
of investment spending don't actually
generate a lot of new jobs. And so that
eventually becomes an issue for the
economy. In the short term, you run
strong growth and you can have weaker
labor market. And I think that's what
we're seeing right now. But eventually
people don't have the wage income to
purchase. And if you look at consumer
spending, it's holding up. But it's
holding up because the savings rate
keeps going down. people are saving less
and less because their incomes aren't
tracking with that consumption. So
eventually it's an issue for the
economy.
>> You still think that the Fed is on track
to cut by 75 basis points this year.
Even with Kevin Worsh potentially being
uh the Fed chair, why not more given
some of the pro uh proclamations that
we've heard from certainly President
Trump as well as uh Kevin Worsh and
considering the weakness that you see in
the labor market? Yeah, I I think the
risks are that we do end up with more
cuts than 75 basis points rather than
less cuts than 75 basis points. The
reason I think 75 makes sense as a base
case is although the labor market is
softening and loosening, it's happening
very gradually. So if we just project
out that gradual loosening of the labor
market, the unemployment rate will move
up just a bit this year. Inflation will
come down a bit this year. And that
would mean that the Fed should just ease
policy rates by a bit this year back to
something closer to neutral which 50 75
basis points lower be neutral. I think
that should be the base case. The market
has about 50. I have about 75. But
what's the risk? The risk is that when
you're in an environment where hiring is
so weak if there's any pickup in layoffs
that unemployment rate is going to shoot
up and then we'll get more cuts.
>> Well, you haven't changed your
expectation even though we have a new
nomination for the Fed. So, do you think
a Kevin Worsh is going to be data
dependent given what you're basing this
off as the data that you expect to come
out?
>> Yeah, it's I mean it's not just Kevin
Worsh and I think that that's an
important point that it's the committee
as a whole that committee has been data
dependent. I do expect Kevin Worsh as an
individual to be data dependent as well.
So depending on where that inflation
data comes in in the second half and I
think that's really important and
probably underemphasized. a lot of focus
on the labor market right now and that's
appropriate. But those inflation numbers
I think by the second half are going to
look closer to 2% inflation and that's
not just going to give Kevin Wars the
ability to cut interest rates. I think
that will give a lot of members of the
committee the confidence that they can
bring rates lower.
>> What's the source of that? What's
driving us back to two?
>> Shelter cooling is where we have the
most confidence. I think a lot of
economists have that in their forecast
now. We just have so many indicator.
It's a soft housing sector. The housing
sector is soft right now. Prices are
soft. rents are are soft. Um but this
loosening labor market should also give
us confidence that inflation will come
down further. Um and then finally that
that tariff boost that we think is about
50 basis points in CPI and PCE right
now. Um that should be dissipating by
>> So let's just go over the shout story
because when people like you explain the
shout story, it sounds so intuitive. It
sounds like common sense. Okay, you've
put it that way. I can see where it's
going to be several months out in the
official data. Why do Federal Reserve
officials not share the confidence you
have about the disinflationary tailwinds
that are already coming down the
pipeline?
>> I I think there's a difference between
different Fed officials and and
different officials would be different
places on this where where I am and
maybe some of the more doubbish
officials are saying, "Yeah, we we
basically can forecast this thing 6
months to a year in advance. We know
that it's going to cool down." I think
there are other Fed officials that maybe
also kind of know that we can forecast
that, but think that the way they should
behave is if we can because they think
it's important to take a strong stand
against inflation. You see 3% right now
and they think we're supposed to react
to that 3%, not the forecast of where
we're going. I react to the forecast. I
think other Fed officials do, but I
think that's a difference of opinion in
terms of how you conduct monetary
policy.
>> So, in other words, this is about
appearances. This is about appearing
hard on inflation, even if they'll come
down on the same side as the doves. So,
in other words, do you agree with Kevin
Walsh that people should just talk less
and not really give forward guidance?
>> I think Well, I do think forward
guidance is we're we're probably overly
used to forward guidance because we were
in these strange scenarios where you had
to give guidance about keeping policy
rates um at the lower bound for a long
period of time. Um so, we should be
moving away from that. Um in terms of
this, you know, is is it is it kind of,
you know, optics talking about
inflation?
It's hard to make an argument that 3%
inflation is a lot worse for the economy
than 2% inflation. Um the target is 2%.
So there is an optics reason that you
want to be at 2%. Um if central banks
were to do it over again, I think most
economists would say probably we should
have had a range of inflation that would
have been acceptable. So I do think it's
a lot about optics right now. This is
fascinating especially because the
person who is likely to come in to be
the next Fed chair is an inflation hawk
at least traditionally more than a
decade ago and people are saying people
can change in that time. Do you think
that he is also potentially going to
accept 3% as a new 2% and be more dovish
in the approach because it hasn't been a
problem and frankly if people were to
come back that might be the more
appropriate target.
>> Yeah. I I'm not ex I'm not suggesting
and I don't think that um Kevin Worsh is
going to say that 3% should be the new
2% that we should be changing the target
right now and we've just overshot for
multiple years. Um but but I do think
this idea that we can't be hyper
sensitive to is inflation off by you
know a tenth of a percentage point here
or there? Um, I think the the the more
you kind of immerse yourself in this
data and understand what the data are
and all the issues and producing it and
the different choices that we make, it's
hard to get really excited about being
off by a few basis points. So, I'd like
to see them move in that direction. Um,
and possibly they will.
>> To your point though, Andrew, I think
there's a a realization on the committee
that they can shape the events they
influence and they can basically sit
here and say, you know what, we can
shape the events we anticipate by saying
things like, I'm not worried about
inflation could actually contribute to
inflation. Is that ultimately what
you're getting at?
>> Yeah, I I think that's exactly the
concern. The reason I would be less
concerned about that now is because we
have all of these indications that we're
not in an environment where we have a
bunch of upside around inflation. And it
is actually the opposite of where we
were when Fed officials were saying they
weren't that concerned about inflation
when everything was supposed to be
transitive. We had a tight labor market.
We had wages that were accelerating,
prices that were accelerating all over
the place. All of those things are
decelerating now. So I think you can be
a lot more confident that we're going to
get inflation lower.
>> Andrew, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Andrew Honhorse of City on the
optics over the Federal Reserve.
>> I think it's a little cute. I think that
he's not wrong, but I do think that
there is this feeling that if you act
like you're hard on inflation, you can
drive down inflation in a de facto way.
I don't think any company looks out and
says, "I'm going to raise prices because
they seem less concerned about
inflation." I mean, if you think about
how it plays out in markets, I'm not
sure it's that direct, but it is kind of
this funny, you know, potentially
influencing the world that they cover.
>> That's the game apparently. Equity
futures right now in the S&P negative by
about 4/10en of 1% with an update on
stories worldwide. Here's your Bloomberg
brief with Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. A partial US government
shutdown entering its third day. House
Speaker Mike Johnson is hoping for a
vote on funding bills today. Minority
Leader Hakeim Jeff saying Democrats want
an agreement on their demands for
reforms at DHS before they'll vote in
favor of the package to reopen the
government.
Disney earnings beating Wall Street
estimates on both the top and bottom
lines. The bulk of the company's profits
coming from its parks and cruises unit
led by Josh Dearo. And sources telling
us here at Bloomberg that tomorrow is a
likely successor to CEO Bob Iger. The
board is expected to vote on a new CEO
in the coming week.
Bad Bunny making history at the Grammys,
marking the first time the album of the
year has gone to a Spanish language
work. The Puerto Rican superstar
dedicated his acceptance speech to quote
all the people who had to leave their
homeland. Country star Shabuzzi, who won
his first Grammy, dedicated his award to
immigrants.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, we're setting you up for the
day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Oxana Arnoff of JP Morgan Asset
Management. weighing in on the next Fed
chat.
I think that of the options, it's a
pretty strong pick for the president. I
I know there's some people who question,
you know, what these hearings are going
to be like when he gets there because of
positions he took against quantitative
easing after the financial crisis. If
the Senate can uh can confirm Tulsi
Gabard to DNI and Christy Gnome to DHS,
I don't think it's going to be much of a
challenge for them to confirm Kevin
Worsh here to the Fed.
>> That was Mark Shaw. Good fun a little
bit earlier on on Kevin Walsh and the
future of the Federal Reserve. If you're
just joining us, a volatile start to the
trading week. Things are calming down
just a bit going into the opening bell.
Equity futures negative by 0.4 on the
S&P and the NASDAQ 100 down by 0.7.
That's the price action. Your week ahead
looks like this. Today, ISM
manufacturing data plus we'll get a
little bit of Fed speak on Tuesday.
Jolts data and results from AMD, FISA,
and Pepsi. Wednesday, results from
Alphabet. Thursday, some central bank
decisions and results from Amazon. Plus,
another round of jobless claims. Then
Friday, hopefully the big one. Hopefully
we get some payrolls data this Friday.
>> Oh, I don't even want to hear this. I
mean, honestly, why are we in a shutdown
again? Hopefully it'll be over by
tomorrow. That's what they say.
>> And then we wake up, we don't talk about
it, and we just move on with life.
>> Let's do that.
>> No one really wants to talk about these
things.
>> Because there's nothing to say. It's
Groundhog's Day, literally. And here we
are again with the government shutdown.
>> Should we talk about Kevin Walsh? And
who is Kevin Walsh,
>> please?
>> Another round of that. Literally,
Groundhog Day
topic. Okay. Oxana Aronov of JP Morgan
Asset Management with this to say. Even
in the most dovish scenario, this
cutting cycle is closer to the end than
the beginning. Oxana joins us now for
more. Oxana, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Does Kevin Walsh move the dial for you
and the team at all?
>> Well, I'm afraid to talk about it now.
>> No. Um, I mean, look, I it it's it it's
important to say that it will be
interesting to see how he's going to
reconcile his historically, you know,
hawkish stand on the Fed balance sheet,
on inflation, and Trump's desire to see
lower rates and how he's going to
achieve this balancing act. We'll see
whether he's going to have to compromise
on on some of those views. But even if
you assumed he was going to be the most
dovish of doves, you know, as you as you
said there, um we are closer to the end
than the beginning. And frankly, this uh
cutting cycle achieved very little if
anything at all in terms of
affordability, in terms of really
getting long rates significantly lower.
And now, of course, all eyes are on
whether inflation risks are to the
upside. Over 50% of CPI is run is
running at or growing at at least 3%.
shelter being um a significant dampener,
but and I don't know that a lot of
people talk about this, if we were to
actually see mortgage rates go lower,
what is that going to do to home prices
in um an ecosystem where there's very
very limited supply? It's going to send
prices higher. So, it might actually be,
you know, have a counter um productive
effect in that respect. I guess there's
a bigger question right now markets too,
which is how much does it matter what
the Federal Reserve does with interest
rates? How interest rate sensitive is uh
both this equity and this credit market?
When it comes to credit markets in
particular, where some people say it's
priced to perfection, how important is
it for the Fed to cut rates more
aggressively going forward? It doesn't
matter whatsoever as long as the
government balance sheet is in the shape
that it is in. We're staring down the
barrel of tens of billions of dollars
more stimulus this year. And of course,
and I've been saying this for a long
time, the long end of the curve doesn't
care what the Fed is doing at the front
end of the curve. the long end of the
curve is reacting to the fiscal policy.
It's reacting to inflation expectations
which um have moved up for the next year
um in terms of what consumers are
expecting. It's reacting to um supply of
treasuries and so it's it's very you
know this cycle is very different for
that reason. It hasn't really reacted to
Fed policy decisionm um at the front end
of the curve. Does it give you
confidence that we haven't seen more
volatility particularly at the long end
of the curve even with all of the
volatility that we see in precious
metals and gold and silver etc. I mean
this has actually been one of the havens
frankly uh in terms of just price
movement. So it's it's interesting to me
generally for credit that we haven't
seen more volatility um or for equities
although equities kind of move in their
own ecosystem. um we arguably have one
of the most volatile administrations um
and we are not really seeing that in
markets and I think part of that is the
Fed put right this sort of implicit um
expectation that the Fed put is always
there for you it's always going to be
there come to your rescue and that's
where you know Wars' candidacy is
interesting if he doesn't really believe
in continuous expansion of the balance
sheet which is already quite quite large
at $6.5 trillion then is the Fed put
really there I mean he's been very vocal
about saying that Look, the Fed should
have a smaller footprint on the economy,
on markets. So, I really am wondering as
we are seeing these record record tights
in credit, uh whether that's really
sustainable uh particularly in of course
the private credit ecosystem and there's
nothing inherently wrong about it. It's
just the way that it has evolved where
in prior cycles it was predominantly
focused in the bank lending space. Now,
it's of course non-banking funds um
lending and so it's just become a much
more opaque ecosystem and a
significantly larger one.
>> When you look at Kevin Walsh and the
president's obvious lens of
affordability this year, does he make
sense and match up?
>> So, this is what the balancing act is
going to have to be all about. How do
you achieve affordability uh by simply
cutting rates? It hasn't worked so far.
And then also if you believe that the
Fed's balance sheet should be smaller
and you are concerned about inflation
which inflation risks you know when I
look out um I really um contrary to your
to your prior speaker here I think the
the risks to inflation are skewed to the
upside because I struggle to see what is
actually bringing it down. Whether you
look at demographics, whether you look
at immigration policy, whether you look
at really any anything that is
supporting or has effect on the
inflation number, including the actual,
you know, things like specific things
like PPI that came out recently, more
than double what was expected, right?
Inflation risks are actually skewed to
the upside. And if he's going to respect
that, then you have to at least stand
pat on rates. But even if you were to
cut them, we've seen that that hasn't
been
>> Andrew was talking about shelter, where
do you see fresh catalyst for inflation
>> in shelter? So in um in terms of lower
borrowing costs there that can create
actually a higher pricing um impetus for
shelter um generally there are more
households. There's, you know, household
formation has outstripped supply for
many decades now um in this country and
that is what's driven prices higher
significantly higher and that's going to
keep prices relatively high. Now shelter
has experienced some softness because
mortgage rates are so high because it
has become less affordable but it's not
going to be a reliable sort of um you
know dampener consistent dampener to to
inflation over the long term.
>> Let's say chair washes a hawk. Just want
to throw this out there. Doesn't that
make it more likely long rates fall than
rise?
>> Um, paradoxically, yes. And this is I've
said this for a long time that for the
Fed to achieve their, you know,
supposedly still 2% target, which by the
way, I'm not saying that it's the right
target and that there's anything wrong
with a 3% target, but it is very
meaningful that they haven't changed it
so far, right? Um, paradoxically, for
them to achieve it, they need to sound
more hawkish than doubbish. Um, it's
sort of counterproductive what they're
doing.
Good to see you. Oxin enough there of JP
Morgan Asset Management, which kind of
speaks to one of the things that Andrew
said about five or 10 minutes ago.
>> Yeah, that essentially they have to kind
of almost tacitly accept a 2 to 3%
inflation rate in order to have some of
the rate cuts that they're hoping for.
Interestingly though, if he is hawkish,
if he is hawkish even on letting the
balance sheet roll off of the Federal
Reserve, that would lead to more
tightness that would then lead them to
be able to cut rates, but would also
bring long-term rates down, but maybe
not for the reasons people want.
>> Bonds are a snooze this morning. Yields
are up by about a basis point on 10.
Equities are recovering. We're down by
about a third of 1%. Coming up tomorrow,
we'll catch up with Chris Veron of
Strategus, Victoria Fernandez across
Mark, Dan Greenhouse of Solace, and
Chris Harvey of CIBC from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.